The fan: Sales associate Adel Zanoun, 28.

The country: Algeria returns to the World Cup after a 12-year hiatus. The North African nation is the tenth-largest country in the world by size. There's a large population from the country living in Canada; most of those — 72,835 — reside in Quebec. Some 1,290 people in Toronto claim Algerian origin.

Why he cheers: Zanoun still has flashbacks to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, when his home country almost defeated Germany in the round of 16.

That was the last time they made the tournament, losing 2-1 in extra time; the Germans went on to win their fourth World Cup.

“It was a crazy game,” said Zanoun, an avid soccer fan. “Actually, I think every football fan remembered this game … even with us losing, it's still like a good souvenir for every Algerian fan.”

Soccer is Zanoun’s first and only real love and he tries to play at least once a week. His uncle, who lives in the United Kingdom, got him obsessed with the game at a young age as he learned about English soccer and became a lifelong Arsenal fan. His first souvenirs were anything that had to do with Arsenal, as he’s on a high right now after watching them secure the Premier League title.

“The feeling was sick. I wanted to scream,” said Zanoun. "I still want to scream like all the time.”

He hopes that exhilarating feeling continues into this World Cup as he prepares to watch Algeria return to the world stage. Seeing them miss the last two World Cups was disappointing for Zanoun. They failed to make it in 2022 after losing to Cameroon in the qualification process.

He hates when people talk about who is more deserving, but he might make an exception there. “I don't want to talk about referees, but it was a bit weird also that day we missed so many chances, and we lost at the last minute of the game at home.”

This year, a historic 10 African countries qualified for the FIFA World Cup due to the expanded 48-team tournament format. Algeria will open against the defending champions Argentina and superstar Lionel Messi, in a group that also includes Austria and Jordan.

Results matter more than qualification to Zanoun, who doesn’t see why they can’t finish top two in their group.

How to cheer: For Algerians, music and soccer go hand in hand when celebrating and watching the national team, as he expects new chants and traditions in their return to the World Cup.

“When we feel we need to express something, we do it in music, and that's our best way to do it,” said Zanoun.

When it comes to food, pizza is popular for Zanoun and other Algerians when watching a game. Also popular is mahjouba, a crepe-styled flatbread that typically includes a mixture of onion, garlic, tomato, peppers and spices.