The fan: DJ Nicolas Panart, 36.

The country: Argentina is the World Cup defending champion, led by legend Lionel Messi. The second-largest nation in South America has won the trophy three times. There are an estimated 19,530 Argentines living in Canada, with 4,105 people in Toronto claiming Argentinian origins.

Why he cheers: After Argentina beat the Netherlands on penalties in the 2022 World Cup quarterfinals, Panart booked a flight halfway around the world from Canada to Qatar and saw his team go all the way. He said his heart was pounding throughout the final win over France.

“I think a lot of people would agree that was probably the best World Cup final soccer game that anybody’s seen, with a 3-3 draw and then going to penalty shots,” says Panart, who grew up in Canada.

Rooting for Argentina is a tradition passed down from his parents, who often told him stories about Diego Maradona, one of the sport's all-time greats. As a kid, Panart loved to play the FIFA video game and often wore a Gabriel Batistuta replica jersey.

Buying a last-minute plane ticket to Qatar in hopes of witnessing history was a no-brainer. What he experienced was something he wishes every soccer fanatic could enjoy: “Right after the birth of my son, it’d be number two.”  

Only Italy (1934, 1938) and Brazil (1958, 1962) have won back-to-back men's World Cups, but Panart thinks Argentina has a shot.

“The true meaning of brotherhood lives in the Argentinian team; those other teams wish they had that.”  

Messi is expected to suit up for his sixth and last World Cup. At 38, he holds the record for Cup matches played (26) and continues to dominate with Inter Miami in Major League Soccer. Panart says Argentina’s 2022 triumph stamped Messi as the greatest player in soccer history.

“Everybody doubted Messi because he didn’t have a World Cup. Maradona did, Pelé did. In order to be the greatest of all time, you have to have a World Cup.”

How to cheer: Panart says Argentina fans often gather on game days for an asado, or traditional barbecue with slow-cooked meats.

Favourite items include empanadas and choripán (grilled chorizo). Mate, a caffeine-rich infused herbal drink, is the popular beverage and part of Messi's regimen. During the 2022 World Cup, the team reportedly travelled with 240 kilograms of the stuff.

“I believe that the Argentinian team for me represents a whole bunch, represents love, family, unity,” Panart says. “Argentina brings a lot of people together.”

For casual fans, Messi and Co. are a major draw, so finding Argentina on a screen around town won't be a problem — finding a seat might be the challenge.