The fan: Recruiter Mike Noehammer, 31.

Cheering for: Austria, an Alpine nation of just over 9 million in Central Europe; 11,700 people of Austrian heritage live in Toronto. Austria has been in six World Cups before this year.

Why he's cheering: Mike Noehammer has been waiting for this moment for 28 years.

When Austria kicks off its first World Cup appearance since 1998, Noehammer will be in his parents’ basement in Mississauga with his eyes glued to the television screen.

Today, he has a wiener schnitzel — a classic Austrian dish, consisting of a breaded and fried veal, chicken or pork cutlet — in hand as he sits inside Sin & Redemption in downtown Toronto, right across the street from where his grandparents got married at St. Patrick's Catholic Church.

He’ll likely have roast potatoes and sauerkraut to go with it and, without question, a Stiegl, the country’s national beer. It’s the only way he knows how to watch Austrian soccer this World Cup.

“A schnitzel dinner isn't complete without a Stiegl in my opinion,” laughs Noehammer.

The 31-year-old doesn’t have any recollection of Austria’s last appearance in the FIFA World Cup. But can you blame him? The Toronto native was just four years old at the time.

During the 2002 World Cup, Noehammer witnessed classmates who were Polish, Portuguese and Italian enjoy showing off their country’s flags and jerseys. Now in 2026, he’ll get to experience an adrenalin rush like none other, watching his country on the world stage.

“With Austria not having the greatest success at the FIFA World Cup qualifying and at the Euros, I always sort of felt left out that the country of my heritage wasn't there,” said Noehammer.

Noehammer’s family immigrated to Canada in the early 1950s, after the Second World War, to establish a new life and seek better opportunities. Life in Austria wasn’t stable; a lot of uneasiness existed.

The World Cup is a chance for Noehammer to share the pride of his country, show off the colours of their flags, wear his jersey in public and show how proud he is of his grandparent’s lineage and sacrifice.

Back at the World Cup, Austria is a team that has surprised many in the soccer world. It’s a far cry from when they co-hosted the 2008 UEFA European Championship and pundits claimed Austria had no business being there, with one reporter even suggesting they forfeit their host spot to avoid embarrassment.

That’s when Noehammer’s support for Austria took off. With no expectations, the country shocked the world to grab a late draw with Poland in a group stage match.

“I remember celebrating so heavy just because we weren’t supposed to be there,” said Noehammer, who still laughs about the moment. “To spoil Poland's party, to steal points from them and to come away from the tournament with something, that's when I knew, this is my team going forward.

Noehammer has closely followed the careers of Austrian players, including David Alaba, who has quickly come up the ranks and has become the heart and soul of the country.

Austria enters the tournament in the same group as reigning World Cup champion Argentina and Noehammer won’t lie and admit that Lionel Messi does scare him. Argentina will likely be the biggest challenge, but with Alaba leading Austria, he believes they have a chance.

In the last Euros, Austria was in a group filled with the top dogs, the Netherlands and France, but came out on top of the group.

“We are not just at the World Cup, but we're there to compete,” said Noehammer. “I couldn't be more proud. I'm just happy to see them on the world stage … we can show the world who we are and how far we've come as a program.”

How to cheer: The team isn't making it to the big screen at Toronto's official fan festival, at least not in the early rounds. But if you're pulling for Austria, the Adidas Home of Soccer at Stackt Market promises to put every match on a big screen. Entry is first-come, first-served, and the space is closed Mondays.