The Fan: Sales director Kerin Sparks, 60

The country: Australia is set to make its sixth straight World Cup appearance with a game in Vancouver, British Columbia. The sixth-largest country in the world, there are about 3,480 Australians living in Toronto.

Why he cheers: Kerin Sparks remembers the heartbreaking 1-0 loss to Italy in the round of 16 at the 2026 FIFA World Cup. A 95th-minute penalty saw Francesco Totti score a goal to help Italy advance. Italy escaped despite being down to 10 men on the field after being issued a red card in the 55th minute of the match.

The controversial penalty call late in the game led to an apology to Australian fans from Sepp Blatter, the head of FIFA at the time, saying they should’ve advanced. Many thought the Socceroos had a chance of lifting the trophy if they defeated Italy, gaining a ton of notoriety, appearing in the tournament for the first time since 1974, and almost upsetting the eventual World Cup champions.

“Australia really took off and got a lot more respected in regard to being a soccer nation,” said Sparks.

The 60-year-old sales director grew up in Perth, Australia and grew up playing Australian football instead of soccer as a kid. He met his wife in Greece while backpacking, before settling in Toronto in 1993. He’s now watched his country become a staple in the tournament, making an appearance every year since 2006.

One of his favourite moments as a fan of the national team was watching Tim Cahill in the 2014 FIFA World Cup, who scored their first goal against the powerhouse Netherlands. Australia lost that match and failed to get out of the group stage, but Cahill, who remains the all-time goalscorer for Australia, had one of the more memorable goals from the entire tournament.

Sparks made sure to closely follow Australia’s qualification process, knowing that if they made it to the World Cup, the Socceroos would be playing in Vancouver at BC Place. He spent $400 on two tickets for their match against Turkey and will carry one of Australia’s greatest players' jerseys with him, Harry Kewell.

“Everybody's like, ‘How the hell did you get that? Where did you get that?” said Sparks, who found the jersey on eBay over a decade ago.

Australia’s youth, exuberance and ability to shock some countries, is why Sparks thinks his country can make some noise in this tournament. They’re in a group with Paraguay, Turkey and the USA.

Despite not being in the same group as New Zealand, Sparks hopes they can run into the neighbouring country. It doesn’t matter what the sport is, there’s deep rivalry whether it’s cricket, netball, rugby or soccer.

“We have a deep love for working alongside each other,” said Sparks. “When it comes to sport, on the field, it's a true hate, so it's kind of like USA, Canada, big time,” said Sparks.

How to cheer: Hemingway's Restaurant and Bar on Bloor Street will be the headquarters for many Australian and New Zealand soccer fans to come together and watch the World Cup. Whether it’s a cricket or Rugby World Cup, Sparks has seen the restaurant packed to the brink and expects the same this tournament.

You’ll hear them chanting "Aussie, Aussie, Aussie! Oi, Oi, Oi!" which is a popular sporting chant in the country, used to rally support.

For food, Australian fans are known to have chicken parmi, a beloved staple that includes crumbed chicken breast, Napoli sauce, ham, and melted cheese, often served with fries and salad.

They’ll also have sausage rolls, meat pies and the iconic Australian chocolate biscuit, known as Tim Tam, plus Australian beer such as Coopers Pale Ale.

“It's passion, and it's vital, it's life,” said Sparks. “When your colours are out there on the pitch, it's something that's extremely rare and unique to play every four years … it' s rabid.”