The fan: Partnership manager Antoine Marion, 29.

Cheering for: Belgium, a nation with a long World Cup history: 15 total appearances, including a third-place finish in 2018. The western European country has a population of 11.9 million; 5,575 people of Belgium origin live in Toronto according to Statistics Canada.

Why he's cheering: Antoine Marion’s lucky scarf stayed with him as he followed the Belgian national team.

He remembers when he was four years old young following the sport, catching a glimpse of his favourite team at King Baudouin Stadium in Brussels, Belgium.

“Just the atmosphere that we had on the day of the game with all the Belgian fans, a sunny beautiful day ... chanting all together, the whole day cheering the tea,” he said. “The connection that you have with both friends and just random people, that's a nice thing.”

Each game brought new adventures with his group of six friends, who soaked it all in as Marion’s scarf blew in the wind.

Then one day he lost it.

“To be totally honest, I think I wasn't that sober that evening and it didn't help to keep the scarf,” said Marion, who has since gotten a new one. “Even without that old scarf, I'm sure I'll find another lucky charm for us to go for at this World Cup.”

While he has lived in Toronto for the past two years, Marion is still able to hang out with the same group of friends to cheer on his country as they plan to catch the Belgium game in Vancouver against New Zealand on June 26. They had been planning to see the World Cup together for six years and now get their chance for a boys trip in Canada.

“It has been years that we've been waiting for this and now a couple of months ago when seeing that Belgium was playing in Vancouver we organized everything to make sure that we would be there,” said Marion.

Marion still feels a deep connection to his home country, and is excited to celebrate the World Cup with other Belgians in Toronto. “I'm not in the country but on the other hand there is a strong community here that helps to feel a bit like home,” said Marion.

How to cheer: Belgium fans will gather at the Crafty Coyote on Bloor for three games: June 15 against Egypt,  June 21 against Iran, and June 26 against New Zealand. 