The fan: General director of the Bosnian-Canadian Association Emina Kapo, 33.

The country: Bosnia and Herzegovina makes its second World Cup appearance after securing a spot by defeating Italy in a playoff match that went to penalties. The country on the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe has approximately 35,925 people living in Canada, with 3,255 people of Bosnian origin based in Toronto.

Why she cheers: When Bosnia and Herzegovina beat Italy to secure their spot in the World Cup and a date with Canada to open the tournament on June 12 in Toronto, the win was poetic and a full-circle moment for Kapo and those who have closely followed the national team for decades.

After the Bosnian war ended in the mid-’90s, the country’s first international victory came in a shocking 2-1 friendly match against Italy in 1996 at Kosevo Olympic Stadium in Sarajevo. 

Thirty years later, Kapo was at home with her parents as she struggled to watch her country compete for a spot in the World Cup against the same team, turning away and praying instead while the penalty shootout took place in March.

“The only reason I knew that we had finished the match and won was because my parents started screaming and my mom's like, ‘You can get up now,’ and I started running!” said Kapo. “It was incredibly emotional. It was an incredibly beautiful day.”

To celebrate, Kapo and her family got into their car as she hung from the sunroof, waving the Bosnia and Herzegovina flag as they paraded the streets of Hamilton with other members of the community.

Soccer to Bosnians is much more than just a game. For many, it brought them together in the midst of war between 1992 and 1995. Kids would crumble up socks and paper, and kick them around like they were a soccer ball in the local park with hopes a bomb wouldn't fall on them while they played.

The 33-year-old often gets flashes of memories as a kid, going outside to play and often being told to stay indoors by her mother because it wasn’t safe enough. 

“I just remember the joy of friendship and community and togetherness and everyone trying to rebuild after the devastation that just happened to us,” said Kapo, while holding back tears. “After the fact that we had just lost direct family members. Some people lost entire families, and we still found joy, the tiniest of little things, and the main thing, particularly being footy.”

Kapo was born in Fojnica, a town in Bosnia, just about an hour outside the country’s capital, Sarajevo. After the war, Kapo’s family returned to Sarajevo before moving to Canada in 2002, initially settling in Winnipeg before moving to Hamilton. Her parents managed three different jobs when they arrived, working at a factory, doing cleaning jobs and delivering local newspapers in the middle of the night.

“I grew to love Canada as my second home because it did afford my parents and (me) a lot of opportunities,” said Kapo, who often missed the tight-knit community back home in Bosnia and Herzegovina. “I’m so grateful for the life that it’s provided me and my family over the last 24 years.”

A cousin gifted Kapo tickets to the opening World Cup match between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Canada, and she has family travelling from Sarajevo to Toronto for a special reunion. This will be the first time a lot of them are together since Kapo was a toddler.

Kapo says she’ll be happy either way on the match outcome between her two countries, hoping they can both make it out of the group stage, which also includes Switzerland and Qatar.

How to cheer: As the general director of the Bosnian Canadian Association, Kapo is helping organize a march in co-ordination with FIFA that fans attending the game can take part in on their way to Toronto Stadium. A watch party will also be held at Anapilis Hall in Mississauga for those who won’t be watching the game in person.

Bosnians are known to have coffee and cigarettes during games and pita, known as burek, which is a pastry that’s hand-stitched from phyllo dough. There are different types, such as Sirnica, filled with cheese. Burek is filled with spiced ground meat and onions, while Krompirusa is filled with diced potatoes and onions.

For Kapo, seeing her country back on the World Cup stage is what she’s most proud of.

“The world finally gets to see the beauty that is my home country,” she said, “and the beauty that is our people and the hospitality and respect and love that we really truly have to share with the world.”