The fan: Graphic designer Allan Gomes, 36.

The country: Brazil, the most successful nation in World Cup history, has won the event five times. They are the only country to participate in every single tournament since its inception in 1930. Brazil has a population of 213.5 million people and is the largest country in South America. An estimated 143,500 Brazilians live in Canada.

Why he cheers: Gomes has never been to a country that's hosting the World Cup.

When Brazil hosted the soccer tournament in 2014, Gomes missed out on the excitement in his home country as he lived in Ireland at the time. It didn’t have the same magic as if he were home to witness it.

“It was different, it wasn't loud,” said Gomes. “If you are in Brazil, Brazil's core is you just hear everyone. On their window, singing and shouting, screaming. You feel the floor vibrate. Everyone is watching that.

“It wasn't a party like I was used to.”

Despite having some friends with him in Europe to provide a taste of the Brazilian community during that time, he was still stuck watching games in pubs.

Growing up in Brazil, Gomes remembers the energy of the country during the World Cup. He recalls having to wake up early to catch games, going to parties with friends and family, and even dancing on the street with his parents during the 1998 World Cup in France.

“When Brazil wins, we just go out on streets and on trucks, shouting and singing. Shouting for Brazil,” said Gomes. “I think it's kind of a mixture of carnival and celebration for soccer.”

Now living in Toronto, he’s ready to experience the World Cup up close.

“It's going to be my first time being in a country where the World Cup is happening,” said Gomes, looking forward to watch parties and cultural events in his community. “Let's see how it goes.”

How to cheer: For local fans, it would be difficult to travel through Little Portugal and not find a place to cheer. And if the team really goes on a run this year, the annual Brazilfest at Earlscourt Park just happens to coincide with championship weekend.

Gomes will gear up supporting Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras, commonly known as Palmeiras — a Brazilian professional football club based in the city of São Paul — with his special green hat and socks to represent his favourite team from his home country.

Despite Brazil experiencing political unrest and a general election in the fall, Gomes is ready for the unity of soccer.

“I think there is a lot of polarity on our community because of politics and everything. So when the World Cup starts, it's the time that everyone has the same blood and everyone cheers for the same thing.”