The fan: Dwayne De Rosario, retired Canadian soccer star, 48.

Cheering for: Canada. This is the country's third trip to the FIFA World Cup and the first time it will co-host the event. They are yet to win a game at the group stage; they didn’t score at all in 1986, but were far more competitive in 2022. The FIFA rankings have Canada at 30th in the world, just off its all-time high of 26 in September 2025, and well above its all-time low of 122nd in 2014.

Why he's cheering: De Rosario said soccer is in his blood thanks to a family that long embraced the Beautiful Game. Growing up in Scarborough to a family of Guyanese immigrants, his most loved player was Brazilian legend Pele.

“I was kicking in my mom’s stomach and I haven’t stopped,” said De Rosario. “When I was a baby, and growing up, I went to my dad’s matches. My brothers played it. They loved it. That passion leaked into my veins. You’re running on the field, kicking the ball around, and then it just becomes an everyday activity.”

Playing youth soccer with the Scarborough Blizzard and Malvern Majors, he turned down an offer to join AC Milan’s academy at 15. He eventually turned pro at 17 with the Toronto Lynx, embarking on a 22-year career through European and North American leagues.

He also represented Canada 88 times — tied with Julian de Guzman for second-most appearances all time for the national men’s team. He scored 22 goals, third most by a Canadian male internationally.

The Canadian Sports Hall of Famer was part of a generation of players that helped bring the sport from its niche spot to the mainstream.

“It was rewarding to know that I ended up doing what I love to do,” said De Rosario. “It never ever felt like a job. It felt like another day at the playground with a bunch of friends. And it opened my eyes to the world, travelling to play football.”

How to cheer: De Rosario plans to attend each of Canada’s games, whether in Toronto or Vancouver.

“It’s going to be extremely special and I don’t think there’s words I can use to express how I’m going to feel that day,” said De Rosario. “It’s a dream come true. It’s going to be emotional, it’s going to be all emotions because it’s crazy to think we’re in a time and space where Canada is hosting the World Cup.

“To witness that, to know kids that have dreams and aspirations to play the sport and love the sport. The highest level of our sport is in our backyard. It’s surreal, to be honest.”

Canadian fans won’t be at risk of missing a game. Toronto is blanketed with FIFA flags. There are watch parties, some organized by the city, some by bars, and then there is Canada Soccer House, Soccer Canada's official fan location at the Harbourfront Centre. And Canada’s games will be on just about every television in the country, via CTV, TSN and Crave.

“There are so many pubs, restaurants, communities, it’s going to bring the game to a level we’ve never witnessed before I this country,” said De Rosario. “It’s my job to make sure that hunger, that desire, that appetite stays fresh after the World Cup is gone.”