The fan: Bookkeeper Mike Andrade, 36

Cheering for: Cape Verde, a country of around 524,000 situated off the coast of west Africa. There are 250 people of Cape Verdean heritage in Canada and 150 located in Toronto. This is their first ever World Cup appearance.

Why he's cheering: The tournament is an opportunity for Andrade to get closer to his father's heritage and learn more about his lineage.

When his father turned 18 years old in the 1960s, Cape Verde was in the middle of a 13-year war for independence under Portuguese colonial rule. At the time, it was mandatory for men to enlist in the military, so Andrade’s father instead fled for a better life to Europe. He’d work on a shipping boat, living in a few different countries, before the ship made a stop in Montreal.

“My Dad got sick, so he was hospitalized in Montreal, but the boat had to leave, so he ended up just staying in Canada. Eventually, he found his way to Toronto and then ended up meeting my Mom,” said Andrade.

He remembers visiting the island when he was 10 years old and witnessing an emotional reunion between his father and aunt, who had met again for the first time since he fled as a teenager.

“My dad doesn't cry that often, so I think that's what hit me the most,” said Andrade.

The Toronto native didn’t think in his lifetime that he’d see Cape Verde in a World Cup. Fifteen years ago, he couldn’t even find store selling a national team jersey online that would ship to Canada. It's one of the smallest nations set to debut in the tournament.

The expanded format of the World Cup has made it easier for smaller nations to qualify for the big tournament. The 2022 World Cup in Qatar saw 32 teams compete, as this will be the first year it expands to 48 teams after FIFA announced the decision to increase the field in 2017.

"To any Cape Verdean, they feel as if Cape Verde won the World Cup just by being there," said Andrade. "That's how massive this is and that's definitely the way I look at it ... It is incredible that they are even in the World Cup."

As he’s gotten older, Andrade has been eager to learn more about his Cape Verdean roots. During their World Cup run, it allowed him to closely follow the national team as he kept track of the dates of their qualification games and watched them intensely.

“At some point, I remember looking at the standing of their group and thinking like, ‘Oh my God, they might actually make it!’ ” said Andrade.

In September, Andrade made sure he scheduled his day around watching Cape Verde try and inch one step closer to qualification. They needed a miracle against powerhouse Cameroon — a nation that holds the record for most World Cup appearances by an African nation with eight — and got it.

Despite ranking 22 places below Cameroon in international rankings, a stunning 1-0 win put them in a prime position to make their first-ever World Cup.

“It was a huge upset,” said Andrade. “When they scored, everyone in the stadium obviously freaked out. After the game, they ran onto the field, which they were told not to do afterwards, but they were just so filled with joy. That was probably a day where I had never felt more proud to have Cape Verde roots.”

How you can cheer: Andrade won't be in Toronto himself; he will be flying to Houston to watch the country’s debut in the World Cup against Saudi Arabia. But those who want to cheer for the island nature can visit Toronto official FIFA Fan Festival, where the team plays Uruguay on Sunday, June 21 at 6 p.m.