The fan: TSN host Camila Gonzalez, 28.
 
The country: Colombia, located in South America with a massive population of about 53 million, will make their seventh World Cup appearance and first since 2018. There are 10,340 people living in Toronto with Colombian origins. The country's best finish in the tournament was in 2014 when they reached the quarterfinals.
 
Why she cheers: Gonzalez, originally from Colombia, moved to Canada when she was three years old and always saw how soccer was a contentious talking point in family gatherings, dividing those she loved most with their support of two teams from their hometown of Medellín.
 
“I can't even remember a childhood memory where that wasn't a conversation about Atletico Nacional or Independiente Medellín,” said Gonzalez.
 
After three consecutive World Cup appearances in 1990, 1994 and 1998, there was a 16-year dry spell for the national team. As a kid, Gonzalez didn’t know what it was like watching her homeland compete on the global stage.
 
It wasn’t until 2010, when Colombian singer, songwriter and dancer Shakira took the global spotlight with one of the most memorable World Cup anthems, “Waka Waka (This Time for Africa)” ahead of the tournament in South Africa, where that started to change. Despite not having a team represented, Colombians felt like they were part of the World Cup, and it was the first time Gonzalez watched it closely.
 
“I remember going to school and people wouldn't know … the music that we listened to. People wouldn't know the food that I was bringing to school. People didn't really know anything about Colombia,” said Gonzalez. “(Shakira) breaking in and representing Colombia on that international stage was something that made boys and girls of my age believe like, ‘OK, we can do something bigger than just our community.’ ”
 
Colombia returned in the next World Cup in 2014, reaching the quarterfinal stage before falling to Brazil. Gonzalez fondly recalls the tournament. She remembers getting into trouble at school for proudly wearing her Colombia jersey, which was against the uniform rules. And how whenever the team would score they would salsa choke, a vibrant dance that originated in Cali, a city near the Pacific coast of Colombia known as the salsa capital of the world.
 
Seeing the joy, pride and happiness on the field and in the stands meant so much to Gonzalez, who says her parents stopped watching soccer when violence occurred after the 1994 World Cup when centre-back Andrés Escobar was murdered just days after scoring an own goal that eliminated Colombia from the tournament.
 
“Twenty years later it was kind of like a glimmer of hope," Gonzalez said. "The national team was nice to watch again.”
 
Before that World Cup, Gonzalez travelled to 15 countries for a TSN series called “Game and Glory.” While in a small town during one of the women’s team games, she witnessed how dozens of fans pulled up with plastic chairs outside the only coffee shop with a TV that was streaming the game.
 
Colombians will always show up to watch the national team, no matter what. During a 2016 Copa America match in Chicago against Chile, the game was paused due to a tornado warning as fans hid inside bathrooms for about an hour. Once it was over, they all returned to their seats.
 
How to cheer: It wouldn’t be a World Cup match without Colombians taking shots of Aguardiente or Guaro, a popular hard liquor in Colombia, flavoured with anise. Food must include Colombian empanadas with aji, a spicy Colombian hot sauce.
 
Gonzalez says most Canadians are used to empanadas from Argentina and Chile, but their version is made with corn flour and is deep fried, not once, but twice. Personally, she’ll be skipping out on eating as the anxiety will be on another level.
 
A large group of Colombian soccer fans are expected to gather in Mississauga at Golf On Lounge to watch games. Their group includes Portugal, DR Congo and Uzbekistan, who they open the tournament against on June 17.
 
“Winning the World Cup would change, I think, generations to come,” said Gonzalez. "It would inspire even more kids to join the sport. I think it would probably bring in a significant amount of funding to grassroots programs in the country. It would be mind-blowing. I get emotional even thinking about what that would mean for the country.”