The fans: Maintenance manager and corporate paralegal Goran Penava and Ana Katalinic, 59.
 
Cheering for: Croatia, a country that has established itself as a powerhouse nation, finishing in third place in 2022 and falling just short in 2018 in the championship game in 2018 against France. This will be their seventh World Cup appearance since 1998, missing only the 2010 tournament. There are about 12,20 people of Croatian origin living in Toronto.
 
Why they’re cheering: Months before Toronto was set to host its first World Cup match was set to take place in Toronto, it was hard not to spot two of the biggest Croatian fans celebrating at the city’s 100-day kick-off event for the global tournament.
 
Decked out from head to toe in Croatian gear, the TK-year couple of Goran Penava and Ana Katalinic could be spotted by everyone in attendance in checkered red, blue and white hats, giant foam fingers and jerseys. Mayor Olivia Chow even had to stop and greet them to take a photo.
 
“The jerseys, the checkers … it’s a brand now,” said Katalinic. “It's not just the national identity. Whenever you see checkerboard and soccer, boom, you know it's Croatia.”
 
“I want to jump as high as I can so everybody can see me,” added Penava, whose father even passed down his national team scarf when he died so Penava could always carry him with them.
 
As a little kid, Penava loved playing soccer back home, using rocks and stones and setting them up as a net. He and a wave of Croatians moved to Canada in 1988, just before Yugoslavia’s decade-long war in the early 1990s, due to the country’s struggling economy and for a better life.
 
When he came to Canada in 1988, Penava was eager to find a similar community of Croatian soccer lovers to the one he had back home and it wasn't that hard. Years prior, the Toronto Metro Croatia team — founded by the Croatian diaspora community in Toronto in 1956 — won the North American Soccer League, which was the top league in the United States and Canada from 1968 to 1984. Penava himself played in leagues as he stayed involved with community soccer events.
 
When Croatia qualified for its first World Cup in 1998 and stunned everyone by finishing in third place, it was a historic moment for a country that was still recovering and establishing itself after years of war.
 
“Croatia was just sort of a ‘Wow, where did they come from?’ ” said Katalinic.
 
Both Katalinic and Penava met on a blind date that was set up by their friends in TK. Their love for Croatian soccer never needed to be discussed; it was already ingrained in them. In 2018, they were both in Zagreb, Croatia, watching their country on a big screen TV when they battled France for glory.
 
It felt like they needed a defibrillator when the game ended in penalties and France won.
 
“You could have heard a pin drop in the city,” recalls Katalinic. People were just like, frozen watching.”
 
Despite the loss, the Croatian team flew in from Moscow following the tournament to a heroic welcome with nearly half a million people in attendance — roughly one-tenth of the country's population — marking one of the largest public gatherings in their history.
 
How to cheer: Penava and Katalinic will have friends and family from across the world coming to Canada to support Croatia, as they plan to get together with other local Croatians to watch games at Croatian Parish Park in Mississauga.
 
A large grill is expected with a variety of dishes like ćevapi, which are spiced meat kebabs, pljeskavica, a burger patty and ražnjići, which are skewers. Red wine and beer will likely be the drinks in hand.
 
Penava will be attending Croatia’s second World Cup group stage match in Toronto when they face Panama. Katalinic jokes that he sounds like an angry truck driver while watching games.
 
His hero is Luka Modrić, the captain of the Croatia’s national team. He’s considered one of the greatest midfielders of all-time and the best Croatian player ever. Penava will watch him play in what is most likely his final World Cup.
 
With how close the team has gotten in their past two World Cup appearances, the expectations are high for Croatia to get over the hump and make history.
 
“For us, picture it being carved into stone,” said Katalinic on what it would mean if Croatia won the World Cup. “All of these victories, one by one, they slowly become etched into the identity of Croatia.”