The fan: Data analyst James Roseborough, 42.

Cheering for: Curacao is making its first World Cup appearance, becoming the smallest nation to qualify for the tournament. Part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Curacao is in the southern Caribbean Sea off the Venezuelan coast and has a population of 158,000. A total of 175 Torontonians were born in Curacao.

Why he's cheering: Roseborough never had a team to cheer for in the World Cup.

Despite growing up in Toronto playing house-league soccer through high school, he wasn't a Canada fan, and never felt the passion he saw in his friends who supported other countries.

“I've got a little Ukrainian in me, a little German in me. A little English, Scottish, Irish. I'm a mix of everything,” said Roseborough. “And so when I can, I cling on to those countries just to support somebody. But I don't really have a team.”

He wanted to feel that passion this time around, and so decided to cheer for a lesser-known country: Curacao. “I'm sort of getting on board with them and supporting Curacao because they're such a small country and it's so amazing that they're in it,” said Roseborough.

Roseborough found his passion for Curacao by chance. He was planning a Caribbean trip in April and picked the small island he remembered seeing on TV. He timed his trip to coincide King’s Day, a major Dutch national holiday that honours King Willem-Alexander’s birthday. Curacao hosted a street festival with live music, markets, traditional Dutch games and food stalls. Roseborough saw tons of people celebrating and fell in love with the culture.

“That passion that they all have kind of got me hooked,” said Roseborough. “If I'm going to support somebody this World Cup, I think I'm really on board to support them.”

As the World Cup comes to Toronto, Roseborough will wear his custom Curacao T-shirt, since he says it was impossible to find a jersey of his adopted national team. “There's not a lot of Curacaoan sports bars in the city, but I'm gonna do what I can to get out and find places that are putting those games on TV just to watch with friends and other fans.”

How to cheer: Curacao is tiny enough that you won't likely see a big gathering of national supporters in the city — the stadium in Houston, where the Blue Wave play their first game, could hold about one half of the nation's entire population. But if you are pulling for the ultimate underdog, they will make an appearance on the FIFA Fan Fest's big screen when they play Ecuador on June 20.