The fan: Coppersmith Andrew Peichl, 41.

The country: The Czech Republic has had 10 previous appearances in the World Cup, with most of its appearances coming as part of Czechoslovakia, before the nation split with Slovakia. As an independent nation, this is its second appearance and its first since 2006. Located in Central Europe, about 7,745 people with Czech origins reside in Toronto.

Why he cheers: Peichl was at summer camp in his family’s home country of the Czech Republic, also known as Czechia, when he watched the national team compete in the Euro finals against Germany in 1996. Everyone gathered inside the dining hall to watch the game go to penalties.

It’s a core memory for the 41-year-old, who spent time with family in Czechia in the mid- to late ’90s, often for two- to four-month spans. A lot of that time was spent with his cousins glued to the television screen watching soccer. Twenty years later, he gets to watch his country make its way to the World Cup.

“It doesn't even seem like it was that long ago,” he said.

The team has had bright spots, but those largely disappeared; Peichl says the fall of Communism after the 1989 Velvet Revolution might have affected things. His family fled Czechia and Communism in 1984, escaping to Austria and spending some of their time there at a refugee camp before coming to Canada.

He finally got to watch his team again in the 2006 World Cup at The Foggy Dew, which was a popular Irish pub on King Street. The Czech Republic opened the tournament against the United States; he remembers trash-talking an American during the match who was, unbeknownst to him, the bar’s owner.

Peichl takes soccer seriously, playing twice a week, every Monday and Thursday, in Scarborough at Masaryktown with locals who have ties to Czechia and Slovakia. A bunch of them have played there since the '90s.

“I’ve smashed my TV watching (Toronto F.C.),” he joked. “It’s probably my most intense passion in life, hobby-wise. I do (other) sports too, like rock climbing, skiing, that stuff, but I just love everything about it, the culture.”

How to cheer: Peichl says that having a classic Pilsner beer is most common for supporters of Czechia during matches. A standard pork and dumplings is a go-to as well as sausages.

Peichl has plans to gather with a few friends to watch the games. He’s hesitant to get his hopes up, but is stoked to see how well the team does and if they can surprise the world.