The fan: Sales manager Christian Kitadi, 39

The country: The Democratic Republic of the Congo, also known as the DR Congo, returns to the World Cup for the first time since 1974. Approximately 33,110 people from the Central African nation reside in Canada, with 10,225 in Ontario.

Why he cheers: Christian Kitadi fell in love with watching DRC Congo almost 30 years ago when the team made an improbable comeback against Burkina Faso in the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) bronze medal game.

The national team was down 4-1 in the last few minutes before storming back to tie the game at 4-4-4, sending the game to penalties, and winning in shootouts. It’s considered one of the greatest comebacks in AFCON history.

“That was when I really fell in love with the national team because that's when I started understanding sport, the passion behind it, the drive, and I remembered the emotions and the feelings,” said Kitadi.

The 39-year-old watched the game in Congo with family and friends and recalls the shock and disbelief on their faces. After that match, the streets were madness, fireworks went off, and music was played until late in the night. Despite finishing in third, it was like they won it all.

Since that moment, Kitadi has supported the DRC Congo through the ups and the downs, and the many heartbreaks that have come with it. He’s never gotten to witness the team in a World Cup until now.

“I don't have to cheer for other countries, I'm cheering for my home country,” he says.

According to FIFA, the last World Cup final had the highest viewership at about 1.4 billion. Kitadi says the global tournament is an opportunity for some people to learn about his country, who may not be able to locate it on a map.

The 39-year-old’s family moved to Canada in TK after a change in regime due to a fear of persecution from the new leadership.

“Even though we left, we still had the country at heart,” said Kitadi, who now tries to go back at least every year and has a tattoo of the country map on his arm.

Along with Portugal, the DRC Congo’s group includes Colombia and Uzbekistan. Kitadi sees this World Cup as a chance for redemption for his country, which was mirrored in corruption allegations in 1974. Officials at the time allegedly withheld player bonuses and issued threats to the team — after losing 9-0 to Yugoslavia — to not lose to Brazil by four or more goals if they wanted to return to the country safely.

“’It’s a redemption. That's what I am calling it,” said Kitadi. “To be able to redeem themselves and erase that bad history that they left behind.”

How to cheer: When Kitadi is watching a game, he enjoys having rice, cassava leaves, a Congolese staple, plus some fish and Ntaba, which is grilled goat. His drink of choice is Vital’O, a popular soft drink, and if it’s beer, he’ll have the popular Nkoyi.

The city’s Congolese population is expected to gather at TK. Kitadi is using money out of his Registered Retirement Savings Plan so he can buy tickets to watch his country play against Portugal to open up the World Cup. It’s an opportunity of a lifetime that Kitadi isn’t planning on missing.

He can’t wait to see how DRC Congo fans — which he describes as loud, obnoxious and people who wear their emotions on their sleeves — pack stadiums in Houston, Atlanta and Mexico. For him, when the national anthem plays, it will really hit him that they made it.

Eight months ago, Kitadi placed a $150 bet on Bet360 of DRC Congo winning the World Cup. If they win, he’ll cash out on about $20,000.

“Pray for me,” he says.