The fan: Content creator Carlos Brito, 31.

Cheering for: Ecuador, which had made four previous World Cup appearances, including in 2022. Ecuador is a nation of almost 18 million straddling the equator on the west coast of South America; 8,450 people of Ecuadorian origin live in Toronto, according to Statistics Canada.

Why he's cheering: As a kid, Brito’s Ecuador jersey was his most prized possession.

He was four when his father first dressed him in the classic vibrant yellow, navy blue and red shirt (the team’s nickname is La Tricolor). Now it’s a requirement for Brito to purchase a new Ecuador jersey every two years.

But those looking to get their hand on a jersey will tell you it’s not easy. Ecuador gear is not manufactured by any of the big companies. Being in Ecuador is your best shot at finding a jersey. He’s hoping to add to his collection as his country makes its fifth appearance in the tournament.

“It’s not like this is something that I'm used to,” said Brito. “I don't take it for granted because when I was younger, I was unable to root for Ecuador.”

Ecuador soccer has become a religion for Brito since the first time the country made the World Cup in 2002. He saw the joy on his parents’ faces as they cheered on Ecuador as they’d sit and watch the games as a family

“I can tell you right now we weren’t in an economic situation for anyone to be taking a day off of work,” laughed Brito. “But they did (to watch the games). It just means so much. You make a day out of it.”

Brito’s family migrated from Ecuador in the 1970s and settled in the Jane and Finch neighbourhood. Brito says most Ecuadorians who moved to Toronto settled in either Jane and Finch or the Bloor and Christie area.

Soccer became part of his life at an early age when he’d run around and play at the Driftwood Community Recreation Centre. The game is what keeps the community so tight-knit.

Brito even started his own company called Toronto Latinos, which has close to 100,000 followers in the GTA. When Canada hosted Ecuador in November for a friendly match, Brito was tasked by Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment to help sell tickets and get his community out, as half the stadium was wearing yellow.

“In the stands in Toronto at BMO Field, it felt like we were in Quito, Ecuador. That’s how many Ecuadorians were there,” said Brito. “My head was telling me to cheer for Canada, but my heart was telling to cheer for Ecuador and then vice versa ... the match ended in a tie, so that was pretty cool.”

How you can cheer: Hundreds of Ecuadorian fans in the city will gather inside Mundo Sports Bar Lounge in North York to watch the country’s World Cup journey on TV screens while being served classic Ecuadorian dishes. 

On the menu will be ceviche, made up of pieces of fish pickled in lemon juice as well as fried cheese empanadas. Brito and others will chant “Si se puede,” which translates to “Yes, we can,” as they believe anything can happen in this tournament.

This World Cup appearance means a lot for Brito and the Ecuadorian people. The national team is on the rise though, and Brito won’t be shocked if they end up making the round of 16 for the first time since 2006.

“The players want to do it for the country and give the country something to cheer about,” said Brito. “They’ll take their game to another level because they know they're playing for a country right now that needs them to do well … it can almost pull them out of the situation that we’re in right now.”

“Don’t sleep on Ecuador.”