The Fan: Pharmacist Nadine Hamdy, 32

The country: Egypt will be making its fourth appearance in the World Cup. The northeast African nation boasts a population of approximately 9,725 million. There's about 73,710 that call Canada home, with 26,810 locatied in the Toronto area. 

Why she cheers: When Hamdy was a little girl, she’d travel to Egypt for the summers with her family and support Al Ahly SC, the most famous and successful soccer club on the continent.

She still has the jersey of Egypt’s long-time goalkeeper, Essam El-Hadary, as a badge of honour. He’s the oldest player to play in a World Cup at age 45, and Hamdy has kept and cherished his shirt for 16 years now.

“(The sense of pride is) really deep-rooted w—ithin me,” said Hamdy.

Hamdy gathers with the community to watch the national team play, oftentimes side-by-side with strangers who turn into cheering partners. Despite this being only Egypt’s fourth appearance in the World Cup, Hamdy doesn't fail to let others know that the pharaohs are the most successful team at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), with seven titles under their belt.

During the 2018 World Cup, Hamdy would find a random Egyptian cafe in Mississauga to watching her country compete in the tournament with others.

“We’re all cheering for the same team, and we're all sharing the same excitement or the same anger, frustration, sadness, (it’s) that sense of community,” said Hamdy.

Hamdy, born in Toronto, makes it her mission to travel and visit Egypt at least once or twice a year. It’s a country that never sleeps, and where you can find people dancing and singing on the streets until four in the morning.

The tournament allows Hamdy to shine a spotlight on the country.

“I can't just talk about Egypt on a random day for like no reason, right?” said Hamdy. “Now in the World Cup, I have an excuse to talk about it and then talk about its culture, and talk about its history because we're so much more than just the pyramids. There's so much to Egypt. And I feel like football just brings everyone together regardless.”

Egypt fans are known to be very loud, prideful, and even obnoxious at times, says Hamdy, who can’t sit still during games. You can find people with their cars painted, dressing up often in pharaoh custom outfits.

The national team is led by Mohamed Salah, a well-known soccer player for Liverpool, who is also considered one of the best players of his generation. With Salah leading the country back to the tournament, fans are confident the team has a chance to surprise people. They’re in a group with Belgium, New Zealand and Iran.

“If any African nation is going to win the World Cup, it would be Egyp,” said Hamdy, pointing to the country's AFCON titles. “Why not win the World Cup? We already dominated one continent. Why not go for the rest?”

How to cheer: While watching a game, Egypt fans often have shisha — a waterpipe used to smoke flavoured tobacco or herbal products — in front of them as well as tea, or a lemon mint drink.

Hamdy likes to watch games with tarb, which is a traditional Egyptian delicacy consisting of beef or lamb wrapped in caul fat. She might also have koshary, another national dish that is a widely popular street food that mixes pasta, fried rice, and chickpeas together.

A lot of fans of the national team will be gathering at Masrawy Egyptian Kitchen in Mississauga, a staple for modern Egyptian food, as they’ll be playing all the games.