The fan: Semi-retired Stewart Tyler, 63

The country: England, which has missed only one World Cup in the past 44 years, has talent and hopes to lift the trophy for the first time since 1966. There’s a lot of English in Toronto — 244,995 people here claim it as their ethnic or cultural origin.

Why he cheers: Tyler still keeps his father's ticket stub from the 1966 World Cup, when England reigned supreme. He was just four years old at time, but cherishes the memorabilia as England continues to chase that glory a second time.

“It's coming home!” became the rallying cry of English football fans, made famous by the 1996 song “Three Lions” that is sung to this day.

But whether it's quarterfinal exits, group-stage eliminations, round of 16 appearances or heartbreaking finishes, England fans have dealt with a lot of pain since. Those who support the national team will tell you it’s not for the faint of heart.

Despite that, England is a favourite to win the Cup this year. Tyler expects them to comfortably get out of a group that includes Croatia, Ghana and Panama, and to make a run for it all.

“It would be absolutely fabulous, a dream come true, for England to finally do it in my lifetime and I actually remember it. Because I don't really remember” 1966, said Tyler, who moved to Canada in 1982.

“You grew up in England and nobody says, 'Do you write with your left hand or your right hand?' it’s 'What foot you kick the ball with?',” said Tyler. “I was kicking a ball before I was writing," says the long-time West Ham United supporter, who is a part of official supporters club the Toronto Hammers.

This will be the third World Cup where Tyler will be in the stands for alongside some West Ham supporters. He loves how the tournament brings people together.

“It's truly a global game and you get to see the passion from other supporters and other people around the world when you go to games,” said Tyler, who has tickets for five games in Toronto and one in Vancouver. “I think I probably paid more for tickets in my own hometown than it cost me to go to Doha,” admitted Tyler, referring to the 2022 tournament in Qatar.

Prior to 2022, Tyler was in France for the 1998 World Cup and watched England battle against Argentina in the round of 16, seeing one of the most infamous World Cup moments when David Beckham was sent out with a red card and England lost in penalties.

How to cheer: England soccer fans are known to watch games at the pub and have a pie and pint with them. They’ll also be eating traditional food like fish and chips and steak and kidney pie.

It’s been common for British fans to also have a dish of Indian curry alongside them while they watch World Cup matches. One fan visiting Brazil during the 2014 tournament reportedly paid more than $7,000 to have it flown in from England.

A large group of England supporters will watch games at well-known soccer hubs like Elephant & Castle on King Street West, The Queen and Beaver on Elm Street and Scotland Yard on The Esplanade.