The fan: Brand ambassador Olivier De Bregas, XX (Need age)

The country: France has made 16 appearances at the World Cup and won the tournament in 1998 and 2018. They also made it to the final in 2006 and 2022. Approximately 66 million people live in France, with roughly 120,000 French nationals in Canada and 10,000 of them in Toronto.

Why he cheers: The lifelong soccer fan came to Canada 16 years ago, starting in Montreal then moving to Toronto.

The Cabbagetown resident played competitive soccer for 15 years, having been born and raised in Paris. The 48-year-old married father of two is a lifelong fan of Paris Saint-Germain, to the point he cofounded a supporter’s group in Toronto eight years ago.

He has two favourite players: David Ginola and Zinedine Zidane. Ginola made 17 appearances for France internationally in a playing career that started in 1985 and lasted until 2002 before he joined the broadcast booth.

“If you know Ginola, you know how old I am,” he said. “And Zinedine Zidane, he’s the GOAT.”

Zidane represented France 108 times and three times was named FIFA world player of the year in a career that spanned from 1994 to 2006.

How to cheer: All French national fans are invited to Ricarda’s (134 Peter Street, near Queen St.).

“They welcomed us in 2018 for the World Cup — by the way, we won that one — so that’s a good premonition for us. It’s going to be full of memories,” said De Bregas. “We all thought we could have a little piece of France somewhere in the city of Toronto.”

De Bregas and his friends in the French community are organizing the watch party, like they do for PSG games.

The cuisine hasn’t been finalized. But a croque monsieur (a ham and cheese sandwich but with high-end cheese like Gruyère and Parmesan with béchamel sauce) is most like on the menu. As are fries, or frites.

“I have big expectations for this tournament, and I hope we can lift the Cup again,” he said.

His family is all French but have become Canadian citizens.

“France is our home, but we have been in Toronto so long that we feel like we belong. We are Canadian as well. So of course we are going to root for our friends, our team No. 2.

“And I’ll tell you something, it’s time for Canada to shine. This generation of talent they have. I do believe in Canada’s chance in the group stage for sure, and I hope they can go on further.”