The fan: Anne-Marie Seessle, chairwoman of Südkurve Toronto, the official fan club of FC Bayern München in the GTA

Cheering for: Germany, which will be appearing in 21 of 23 World Cup tournaments and winners four titles in 1954, 1974, 1990 and 2014. A country of a population of about 83.6 million with a vast community here in Toronto of 216,880 people.

Why she's cheering: Growing up playing soccer in Rexdale, Anne-Marie Seessle was a young kid watching how obsessed her father and uncle were to German soccer. They both would congregate in their local community hub called The Musket and little Seexsle would always tag along.

“I spent a lot my days at the Musket with my grandmother, my dad, most of our family functions were done there,” said Seessle. “Essentially, they would show the Germany matches for a friendly, World Cup, Euro Cup, any kind of international match. So it just kind of became a thing that I did with my dad and my uncle.”

Seessle grandparent’s came to Canada in the 1950s like most, to escape the war, coming over by boat from Bavaria, in southeastern Germany. Her grandmother died when she was 11 and her grandfather passed away before she was even born.

Following the national team, has inspiring her to learn how to speak German and more about her family’s roots.

But being a woman, in a sport that's male-dominated, Seessle has had times where guys would try and quiz her knowledge on soccer. 

The 38-year-old is the chairwoman of Südkurve Toronto, which is the official fan club of FC Bayern München in the GTA. Her collection of Germany memorabilia, jerseys, bracelets, earrings, sweatbands, hats, sweaters and even a pair of Germany team-styled shoes — that would stun most people. 

"There's a lot of females in the world that are football fans. And I know many in all over the world who probably know a lot more than some men," said Seessle.

She can remember being at The Musket bawling her eyes out with about 500 fans when Mario Gotze scored a magical goal in extra time as she witnessed the team hoist the World Cup trophy in 2014.

"I will never forget that moment," said Seessle. "One of the greatest joys of my life was watching them win."

How to cheer: There is expected to be about a thousand travelling fans in the city, with hopes of a fan march before games and watch parties being hosted at The Pint Public House near the Rogers Centre. During Germany’s Euro Cup run, they had 300 to 600 fans at the location.

Seessle has received updates from the Germany Football Association and is working in collaboration with the German Consulate in Toronto and the German National Tourist Office to help plan a huge get-together for supporters of the national team.

During matches, German fans are expected to have a Paulaner, the renowned Munich-based German brewery established in 1634 and the team sponsor. Another popular drink for games is German Weissbier, originated from Seessle’s grandparents hometown. On the grill and on the menu will be Bratwurst, a type of German sausage put together with sauerkraut, potato salad, a schnitzel dinner with spätzle, an egg-shaped pasta.

With tickets for Germany’s second World Cup group stage match against Ivory Coast, Seessle will be able to live out her dream of seeing them in a World Cup match.

“I think it'll be a fantastic atmosphere. I'm gonna probably be very emotional because it's a bucket list item for me,” said Seessle.