The fan: Two-time award-winning blogger Gio Marfo
 
Cheering for: Ghana, which is set to compete in its fifth World Cup, with 2010 being its best performance. The West African country is situated on the Gulf of Guinea and the Atlantic Ocean, with a population of 35 million; 7,550 people in the Toronto CMA have Ghanian origins, according to Statistics Canada.
 
Why he's cheering: Marfo fell in love with the Ghana team in the late 1990s when star players like John Paintsil, Stephen Appiah and Michael Essien were coming up and beat a talented under-20 Brazil squad, shocking many.
 
It was the biggest deal to him as a fan. Those same three players moved up the senior team, also known as the Black Stars, and helped Ghana qualify for its first World Cup in 2006.
 
“It was the biggest feeling in the world because finally you can see your own nation at the World Cup,” said 39-year-old Marfo. “And they weren't just at the World Cup. They were competing at the highest level and every single guy on the pitch for Ghana (and) they were actually star players within their clubs.”
 
In the 1960s, Ghana’s nickname was “Brazil of Africa,” due to how they dominated the continent, becoming the first nation to win four straight African Cup of Nations. Ironically enough, in 2006 they matched up with Brazil in the round of 16, seven years after their historic win over the U-20s.
 
After a bad break up, Marfo started blogging about the Ghanian national team to reconnect with his culture as a first-generation Canadian and give fans of the team a place to go to for information he once struggled to find.
 
“I wanted to find a way to use that energy well, instead of, you know, be depressed,” said Marfo, who’s become the No. 1 source for those in North America. “That actually allowed me to heal my heart, believe it or not. The joy of football actually allowed me to heal my heart because it also made me an avid collector of Ghana national team gear.”
 
His goals for the blog started as just a way to unite Ghanians on a specific platform and understand the achievements of the Ghana Black Stars and the women’s senior national team, the Black Queens. He's adamant there's no one with a crazier Ghana memorabilia collection than his.
 
The most heartbreaking moment in the minds of Ghanians is from the 2010 World Cup, when Uruguay striker Luis Suarez played a ball with his hand to avoid giving up a goal in their quarterfinal match, which they later lost in penalties.
 
Many still don’t forget Suarez and see him as the one who stole Ghana’s dream of becoming the first African national team to make the World Cup semifinals. Marfo was advised by his doctor after to stop putting his heart into it.
 
“Everybody was in shock, sadness, anger," Marfo said of his family in Ghana. "It was multiple, multiple feelings. People didn't even know how to feel.”
 
How to cheer: Ghanaian fans will be gathering in North York at African Chop Bar to watch World Cup matches. It will also be a spot for a lot of African nations competing in the tournament.
 
Superstitious supporters of the Black Stars tend to fast on gamedays. Fans are told to put their stomach aside for a few hours. When the team wins, then they can rejoice and eat.
 
“If your team loses, ‘Well, you guys didn't win, so you're not eating for the day,’ ” joked Marfo.
 
That tradition has changed as Ghanians have moved all over the globe and adopting having some of the countries pastries while watching matches. It includes meat pie, Bofrot, which is a type of donut. When you pull up to a bar, you can expect the classic jollof rice.