The fan: Actress Maythaila Jerome-Antoine, 36.

The country: Haiti, which will make only its second World Cup appearance and first in 52 years. The Caribbean country has a large population, with 99,945 people residing in Canada. Approximately 79,725 people live in Montreal, with 2,820 people of Haitian origin in Toronto.

Why she cheers: Jerome-Antoine heard the classic tales from her father about his time in the 1980s training for a coveted roster spot for the Haitian national team, known as “Les Grenadiers”. He would be part of intense practices, run 10 to 20 kilometres a day with hopes of representing his country but, despite being in the mix, he fell just short.

Over half a decade later, Jerome-Antoine is over the moon her father will be able to witness his country on the world stage. He’s already been emotional about what this means to him. As for her, it will be a first.

“It is unfortunate that it took us so long to be able to get back into the World Cup,” said Jerome-Antoine. “But this World Cup is definitely going to be very important for all Haitians around the world.”

Montreal holds one of the largest Haitian populations outside of Haiti and is a major hub for francophone speakers. Thousands filled the seats of BMO Field in March to watch Haiti’s friendly against Tunisia in preparation for the tournament.

Jerome-Antoine, who was born in Montreal but moved to Toronto, was in attendance for the game despite the cold conditions. The day after, she got to meet some of the players on the national team at an event and let them know how proud the community was and what it meant to see them competing at this tournament.

“It was just a friendly game, but to be there knowing that they will actually be on the World Cup stage, like they actually could potentially win the World Cup, you never know, it felt surreal,” said Jerome-Antoine. “This is how my dad felt when he was a teenager.”

The 36-year-old wishes Haiti had matches scheduled in Toronto but has hopes the country can take down powerhouse Brazil when they meet in Philadelphia and is considering making the trek to watch it live.

“It would have made more sense to have like Haiti versus Morocco in Montreal (instead of Atlanta), in my own opinion. Those games would have sold out so quickly,” said Jerome-Antoine.

Over the last few years, Haiti has dealt with political instability in the country with widespread gang violence, humanitarian crisis and the assassination of Jovenel Moïse, Haiti's 43rd president, in 2021.

Jerome-Antoine says this moment for the nation brings some much-needed hope and positivity.

It’s “a time to showcase to the world that, among the adversity, we’re still very resilient,” she said. “We always get up, back on our feet and we make sure to just fight our way through. And that’s what ‘Les Grenadiers’ represents.”

How to cheer: On a typical match day, Jerome-Antoine says brown rice with black beans and either chicken or fried pork is a go-to food item. You also can’t go wrong with the some plantains and Pikliz, which is a spicy type of coleslaw. Haitian beer, known as Prestige, will be served as it’s the bestselling beer in the country.

Like many other Haitians, Jerome-Antoine will be draped in the country’s blue and red flags during games, passionately singing the national anthem with hopes of history being made.

“If you believe in something, you can achieve it, and if these guys are actually able to manage to win the World Cup, they can finally see that even though Haiti has its ups and downs it’s still a very resilient country,” said Jerome-Antoine.