The fan: Former Iran national team member Reza Abedian, 60

The country: Iran is set to make its fourth straight World Cup appearance, despite questions around if they'll plan in the global tournament with ongoing conflict with the U.S. and Israel. The Iranian community boasts a population of 87,105 in Toronto's metropolitan area.

Why he cheers: When Reza Abedian was a teenager, he rose up the ranks in the Iranian soccer world and became a player for Persepolis F.C., one of the most successful and popular soccer clubs in Iran and all of Asia.

It led to a 12-year career for the team and Abedian playing about 15 to 17 games for the Iranian national team. Now, the TK year-old, gives back his knowledge and expertise by running his own soccer academy right here in Toronto called Excel Pro Soccer Academy.

“If I don’t have soccer, I’m done, I’d die,” joked Abedian.

His world revolved around soccer, so it made sense to continue being around his true love and share his knowledge with the next generation, as many in the community had relied on his expertise.

Abedian’s academy is one of the largest Persian community soccer academies in the GTA, having been established in 2009. He coaches about 250 players, has five different teams in the Ontario Soccer League and has helped send a dozen players professionally overseas to countries such as Spain and Portugal.

He was just shy of making Iran’s 1998 World Cup roster in the second appearance in the global tournament. He was one of the three final cuts, and it was one of the most heartbreaking moments he experienced. Sometimes he wishes he was born 20 years later, as soccer has now grown immensely in Iran, from a semi-professional environment to a nation that has now become a regular in the World Cup.

Despite never playing in the World Cup, he follows the team religiously, like many from his homeland, who often celebrate by storming the streets, honking cars, as soccer is the biggest sport in the country.

“The national team is everything to me because with the national team we can show the Iranian culture, the Iranian attitude, everything to the world,” said Abedian, who went to Qatar for the 2022 World Cup.

Iran is expected to play in Los Angeles and Seattle for three of their World Cup games in the United States despite the ongoing conflict that started with coordinated air strikes from the U.S. and Israel targeting Iran’s military leadership and nuclear program.

The Iranian federation will provide him with tickets to attend this year’s tournament as they do for former players who have represented the country. It’s one of the coolest sporting atmospheres he’s been in.

Iran was one of the first teams to qualify for the 2026 World Cup, as this will be their seventh total appearance and fourth consecutive. They’re ranked 21st in the world, as Abedian believes Iran has a chance to get out of the group stage for the first time.

“Because of war, these days, it’s very difficult for the people of Iran and for the national team,” said Abedian, who wants to go watch the team play. “If the team comes to the U.S., we’ll join and come to the stadium. No problem, win or lose… it’s very good for the (Iranian) people to watch the game and enjoy the game.”

How to cheer: Persian cuisine is a must for supporters while supporting, as Kotlet, a traditional pan-fried meat and potato patties are often on the table.

Kebabs are also considered a cornerstone of Persian food, which includes lamb, beef or chicken grilled over charcoal, often served with rice. Salad Olivieh, also known as potato salad, is another staple for get-togethers, as well as nuts, for which Iran is a global leader in terms of production.

Abedian says it’s frowned upon to watch national team games alone. The community in the city plans to watch games at TK.