The fan: Personal injury lawyer Joseph Zayouna, 49

Cheering for: Iraq was the last nation to qualify for this 48-team World Cup, ending a 40-year drought as they have only made one appearance in 1986. Iraq is a country of 46 million in West Asia located in the Middle East, while 10,732 people of Iraqi origin live in Toronto.

Why he's cheering: Growing up in Iraq during the country's first World Cup gave Joseph Zayouna his love for soccer.

He recalled the times he spent crowding around a TV in 1986 at social clubs or a friend's house to catch a game, moments that brought everyone in the neighbourhood together.

“I remember all the celebrations, the music, people on the streets, the flags. It was a great time, even though I was only really young,” said Zayouna.

Even after coming to Canada, soccer was still a big part of his life. Zayouna used to play in high school and helped organize recreational games with the Iraqi community in Thornhill. Friends and family of different ages and skills would come together to share the game.

“It's just so much fun for all of us to come together and play,” said Zayouna.

While he doesn't hit the pitch as much as he used to, he’s glad to see the next generation continue the sport and still host games in the neighbourhood.

Over the years, the Iraqi community has grown in Toronto and gatherings have played a big part in continuing their soccer traditions. Zayouna said he couldn’t be prouder of his country for making it back to the World Cup and the moments leading up to the tournament feel “surreal.”

“Canada is home now, but Iraq's always my home as well,” said Zayouna. “For Iraq, your home country to make it, it's a big deal for us.”

The most important part is finding a place to catch the game. 

“We usually go somewhere, we choose a place to watch, either a friend's house, a restaurant or somewhere that we can watch the games and it brings everybody together,” said Zayouna. “It's that unity that soccer brings, you can't compare it to anything else.”

How to cheer: 

Sahara Restaurant in Mississauga is hosting watch parties for Iraq as they take on Norway on June 16, France on June 22, and Senegal on June 26. They will be selling jerseys and are available for reservations. The City of Mississauga is also hosting free outdoor screening of the Norway and France game at Celebration Square. 