The fan: Cote d’Ivoire support group president Constant Adonis, 62

The country: Côte d'Ivoire returns to the World Cup for the first time in 12 years. The West African nation has yet to make it out of the group stage in four appearances. About 18,865 people from Côte d'Ivoire live in Canada, with 1,225 in Toronto.

Why he cheers: Adonis' love for soccer first started through his father, an international soccer referee who travelled across Africa to call games for the Confederation of African Football. He would occasionally bring Adonis along with him to matches in their home country. It led to Adonis earning his own refereeing certification in Canada.

“I have it, but it was just to be curious and make sure when sometimes I'm at the stadium, to not complain about when the referee messes up,” joked Adonis.

Adonis recalls Côte d'Ivoire’s first appearance in the tournament, the 2006 World Cup, led by star Didier Drogba and how unforgettable the moment was for him and the entire country. He remembers the fan zones and celebrations.

The 62-year-old grew up in Côte d'Ivoire before moving to Quebec in 2008 and later settling in the Greater Toronto Area, where he has lived for the last 12 years.

Following the national team and managing his own soccer team has helped Adonis stay close to his roots. Since 2016, his team has competed weekly in Mississauga and also involved himself in tournaments.

“For us as immigrants, when you come here, we have no connection, so we need to start to build it,” he said Adonis. “The soccer team is one of the key points for us. To build a connection in the country.”

Adonis watched the team known as “The Elephants” when they played last summer in friendlies against Canada and New Zealand at BMO Field. He describes himself as a nervous wreck during games, preferring to watch it at home by himself in front of his TV.

He will be in attendance for Côte d'Ivoire’s lone World Cup game in Toronto against powerhouse Germany.

Côte d'Ivoire isn’t a favourite in the tournament, but Adonis says he can see his country surprising many people due to their resilience, passion and sneaky talent with many players now competing in top European leagues. They’ve won the AFCON title three times, most recently in 2024, and are in a group with Germany, Ecuador, and Curaçao.

How to cheer: Before matches, most Côte d'Ivoire fans have a solid meal to give them energy to survive the gruelling 90-minute matches.

They’ll have local dishes like attiéké (cassava couscous), which is a staple side dish that goes with fish, along with a little alcohol for those who drink, to raise the adrenaline. Inside the stadium, alcohol is generally not allowed, so fans drink a lot of water and orange juice.

Fans of the team might check out one of the more unique viewing opportunities, a watch party held on Toronto Islands by Destination Canada when the nation plays Germany on June 20.

Adonis is helping organize a fan zone area and watch party for Côte d'Ivoire supporters in the city through the Côte d'Ivoire at TK.

“If they win, it will be an earthquake,” Adonis said about what would transpire back home. “Maybe for one week, people won’t go to work. They will celebrate in the street … If it happens, maybe I will take a flight to go directly to the country to see because it won't happen every time.”