The fan: Firefighter Kazu Tokuyama, 49

Cheering for: Japan, which has made it to eight consecutive World Cups since its first in 1998, and has advanced four times to the round of 16. There are 28,660 people of Japanese origin living in the GTA, according to the 2021 Statistics Canada census, with 17,115 in Toronto.

Why he's cheering: Tokuyama remembers the first time Japan played in the World Cup.

He had travelled to Japan in 1998 while the tournament was being held in France. Despite being winless in France, Tokuyama still enjoyed riding the team's momentum.

“Because I was in Japan I really got caught up in the fever of being in the World Cup, cheering on the Japanese national team, and then I went back in 2002 when they hosted,” said Tokuyama. “The atmosphere in Japan and the fervour of the fans was just amazing.”

His fondest memory was watching Japan win its first World Cup game against Russia. He got to watch the game on the big screen in the Tokyo National Stadium.

Now Tokuyama will get to experience the World Cup in Toronto.

“It's a once-in-a-lifetime experience to have the World Cup in Toronto, and in Canada, and North America. I wish I could go watch,” said Tokuyama. “The only downside of it is just I'm very disappointed in the price point of the tickets.”

While he might not see one of the matches in Toronto, Tokuyama will dig up one of his Japan jerseys to rock in the city. He's been collecting every one since 1998 and plans to get the white away jersey this year.

One thing he’s looking forward to while cheering on Japan is to see how far Canada will go on the world stage as a host nation for the first time.

“I'm excited to see Canada and to see how well they do and how the nation gets behind them and how far they can advance,” said Tokuyama.

How to cheer:

The Japanese Canadian Culture Centre, near Don Mills Road and Eglinton Avenue East in North York, is hosting public watch parties for three Japan games during the World Cup. The Japanese take on the Netherlands (June 14), Tunisia (June 21 midnight) and Sweden (June 25).

The watch parties will feature activities including interactive games, raffle prizes, a beer garden, and food and marketplace vendors.

Admission is free for all games but they strongly recommend you to RSVP to secure entry.