The fan: Pastry chef Donia Alansari, 22

The country: Jordan makes its debut in the World Cup as one of eight Arab nations competing this year. Approximately 17,530 Jordanians call Canada home, with 1,365 people in Toronto claiming Jordanian origins.

Why she cheers: Alansari’s family business and food truck, Donia Donair, has been a staple in downtown Toronto for the last five years.

Now, they’ll have the opportunity to serve soccer-crazed fans Jordanian food at the FIFA Fan Festival while watching their country make its first appearance at the World Cup.

“We were honestly so shocked. We were like, ‘No way this is real,’ ” said Alansari. “Even right now, it hasn't hit us completely. We're getting ready, but it hasn't hit us completely to the point where we're like, ‘Oh, we’re in the 2026 World Cup.’ ”

This will be Jordan’s first World Cup, as the country secured its spot last June. The national team has surged, making the FIFA Arab Cup final in December, but fell just short in the championship game to powerhouse Morocco. It was heartbreaking for Alansari and many other Jordanians who are still recovering from that loss, but who now have the World Cup.

Alansari, a pastry chef, followed in her father’s footsteps and joined the family business at a young age. Her dad grew up loving food and makes his own recipes, and has his own homemade sauces and chicken shawarmas, similar to how he did back home in Jordan.

“He really wanted to bring the Jordanian aspect to Canada through the food scene,” said Alansari.

In 2019, her father decided to open up his own food truck in Edmonton and never looked back. Five years ago, they decided to relocate here and drove the truck for five days to Toronto. These days, it can often be spotted on Queens Quay and is a staple in local events like the CNE.

Food in the Jordanian culture is known for bringing people together, during the good times and bad. Donia Donair is excited to expose people to the culture, which includes recipes and ingredients Alansari’s father brings from his homeland.

“It’s just amazing that we're bringing everybody together and we still have options for everybody and it's a huge international event. And we're so glad that Toronto is one of the host cities.”

How to cheer: Alansari plans to take a lunch break during Jordan's World Cup matches to cheer on the national team. For Jordanian food during the game, don’t look further than Donia Donair’s food truck at the FIFA Fan Festival as they’ll be selling their classic shawarma, beef and falafels to hungry soccer fans.