The fan: Toronto Blue Jays rookie catcher Brandon Valenzuela, 25.

Cheering for: The native of Hermosillo is cheering for his home country, Mexico. The nation, which is co-hosting along with Canada and the U.S., is a World Cup regular. This year marks El Tricolor's 18th appearance, and they have reached the quarterfinals twice. A total of 15,440 people in Toronto claim Mexican ethnic or cultural origin, according to Statistics Canada.

Why he's cheering: Valenzuela is pulling for his home team in part because of the challenges they face.

“I’m rooting for the guys in Mexico because even though they’re on the national team, I know that they do a lot and there’s a lot going on in Mexico as a country," he said. "The Federation of Football has not been doing a great job and that’s just been known for a little bit now in Mexico.

“We know that Mexico is not in the greatest spot in history for football, but we’re Mexican, so we just push for each other.”

A pro athlete himself, Valenzuela knows Mexican team player Armando Gonzalez. They have mutual friends. Gonzalez, 23, is nicknamed La Hormiga (the ant), apparently because of a childhood phobia of ants. He won the Golden Boot in the Mexican League in 2025.

Valenzuela is an MLB catcher, so he knows toughness. He said you should pull for his team because they have the same characteristics.

“The effort that the guys have been putting on ... they’ve been going back and forth between the national team and their professional teams and they’ve been going back and forth and back and forth a lot. So they’ve been grinding their asses off for the last month-and-a-half. So that’s one reason — the effort they put in — and also they deserve it.”

How to cheer:  It could almost be a challenge not to find a place to pull for Mexico, with no shortage of places to eat, drink and cheer on our World Cup co-host — the city's World Cup website says that by number of restaurants, Mexican food is among Toronto's top five cuisines, with viewing opportunities to match. And if you love general Latin American flavour with your futbol, the Soccer International Cup Latin Fair takes over Artscape Wychwood Barns on June 20, and Mel Lastman Square on June 21.