The fan: President of the Moroccan Association of Toronto Mohamed Benjelloun, 54

The country: Morocco reached the semifinals at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, becoming the first African nation to do so. The country that borders the Atlantic Ocean and Mediterranean Sea has about 81,770 expats living in Canada — mostly in Quebec — and 4,320 in Toronto.

Why he cheers: Benjelloun is old enough to remember Morocco's rise as a soccer nation at the 1986 World Cup when the country made it out of its group as underdogs, defeating powerhouse Portugal and drawing with Poland and England.

That year, Morocco became the first African team to move to the second round of the tournament.

“That was the start of a new generation of soccer players and of soccer in general in Morocco that actually expanded to 30 years later to this time,” said Benjelloun.

Now, the president of the Moroccan association in Toronto, Benjelloun, who came to Canada in the 1990s for school and settled in Toronto, finds time to follow the national team closely, even making the trip out to Qatar four years ago. It was a special experience for Benjelloun, who was part of a large contingent of Moroccan fans that took over the stadium during matches as many made the trip from different parts of the world.

Benjelloun describes Moroccan fans as animated, especially with the love for the team growing in recent years, with their success in their last few World Cup appearances. In 2022, they became the first African and Arab nation to reach the semi-finals, thanks in part to its fourth-place finish in 2022.

“It’s just something that we Moroccans didn't believe would happen,” said Benjelloun. “Those are really some of the most unique moments that I've lived in my life watching the national team.”

Morocco enters the tournament ranked eighth, according to FIFA's men’s world ranking, making them the top-ranked African team.

But it also arrives in a cloud of controversy stemming from the final of the Africa Cup of Nations in January. Morocco lost the match 1-0 to Senegal but in March was awarded the title and a 3-0 victory, per rules of forfeited matches, after Senegal had walked off the field for 15 minutes during the match's stoppage time in protest of a disallowed goal and then later a penalty awarded to Morocco. The Confederation of African Football ruled Senegal “declared to have forfeited the final” and stripped them of its title. That ruling is now being appealed by Senegal.

 “I think both teams didn't deserve to win,” said Benjelloun, who didn’t believe Morocco played well enough. “I don't think that Senegal deserved to win, not after they did what they did, because it was all premeditated and all planned in advance. That’s not how you win.”

Benjelloun wouldn’t mind seeing Senegal in a rematch that many fans want to see take place in this World Cup. Morocco needs to first get out of its group, which includes Brazil, Scotland and Haiti. The team will be led by Achraf Hakimi, who is considered one of the best right-backs in the world. 

How to cheer: Morocco fans don’t normally have a special food when it comes to games, says Benjelloun. Sfenj is a well-known Moroccan doughnut, but unlike other nations that might drink alcohol, Morocco is a Muslim-majority country and tea is a huge part of their culture.

Fans in the city are expected to watch games at TK, hoping to build on their run from the last World Cup and become the first African team to win the tournament. Benjelloun says if they can win it all, maybe it can inspire other nations, too.

“I generally cheer for all the African teams,” said Benjelloun. “If Morocco is not playing, I'm a fan of the next African team that plays, with no exception. I really hoped that this time that more than two or three African teams at a minimum advance to the third stage, to the round of 16.” 