The fan: Borrel restaurant owner and chef Justin Go, 48

The country: The Netherlands are set to make their 12th World Cup appearance with hopes of continuing its streak of never being eliminated in the group stage. Approximately 75,830 people with Dutch roots live in Canada, with 6,070 residing in Toronto.

Why he cheers: Most times, Justin Go finds himself stuck in the back of the kitchen during World Cup matches that involve the Netherlands. He says that’s a good thing, as he can get riled up sometimes depending on the outcome.

In 2022, he remembers his restaurant going berserk during the quarterfinals match between the Netherlands and Argentina as the “Oranje” rallied back from 2-0 to force penalties against the eventual World Cup champions.

“One of the most amazing Dutch moments I've ever witnessed, but with a bit of a sad ending,” said Go.

That moment for Go is up there with the 2010 World Cup finals loss to Spain as one of the most heartbreaking moments that was filled with an adrenaline rush like no other.

The TK has been prone to the national team breaking his heart, which makes him very cynical of their chances this year as they make their 12th appearance in the tournament.

“There's no other sporting event... like Dutch football,” said Go. “That's for me, the absolute pinnacle of emotion for sport. I like the 49ers for American football, and I'll get pretty into that if they're in the playoffs, but it's nowhere near it's nowhere near the the emotion that I feel for the Dutch team, that's absolutely through the roof.”

Born and raised in Canada, Go opened up his restaurant Borrel in 2017. He originally made Dutch food and snacks for friends from time to time, but after raving reviews, he decided to open a pop-up once a week before officially calling the Danforth area home and providing Dutch comfort food and cocktails.

“In Toronto, you can get literally every kind of food you could think of, but nobody was doing Dutch food,” said Go, whose restaurant also offers Indonesian food. “I just always contemplated this over coffee with my wife in the morning and was just like, ‘What if we started a place?’”

How to cheer: The Borrel has been a go-to spot for Dutch fans to watch World Cup games, making you feel like you’re back in the Netherlands.

The restaurant offers Dutch snacks during matches on disposable containers for supporters to enjoy, such as Bitterballen, which is a beef stew rolled into balls and breaded then deep fried, often eaten with mustard.

Patatje Oorlog, also known as “war fries,” is a very popular snack, which is crispy fries combined with mayonnaise, spicy peanut satay sauce and raw onions. Frikandel is another traditional snack, which includes ground meat sausage.

Go says his restaurant will likely be filled to about 60 people during matches on a first-come, first-served basis. He’s hoping the Netherlands make history this summer, as it will also likely be the greatest moment in the bar’s history.

“It’s kind of the most Dutch kind of feeling that we can have,” said Go.

“During these games, you're hugging strangers, and you're celebrating together, and you’re crying together, and everything like that.”