The fan: Sports and entertainment manager Hayden Burford, 36

The country: New Zealand, will be making its return to the World Cup with two group stage matches in Vancouver and thousands of Kiwis are expected to travel. The Kiwi population in Toronto is approximately 1,235.

Why he cheers: It was a big eye-opener for Burford when New Zealand qualified for the World Cup in 2010. For many fans, it put soccer on the map for them and gave them a taste of seeing their nation on the world stage.

Despite being eliminated in the group stage, New Zealand was the only team to remain undefeated at the tournament, drawing all three of its matches.

“That’s the fact New Zealand football fans like to hold on to,” said Buford. “We haven't been to a World Cup since, it's been 16 years. That's why I think this World Cup is such an exciting time. A new generation of fans coming through as well, some of them can't remember us playing at a World Cup, so it's only positive signs.”

Burford was a university student at the time and remembers New Zealand going bonkers. He’s been searching for that fleeting feeling of watching his country surprise soccer fans.

The 36-year-old is now a board member of Kia Ora Canada, an organization that aims to connect Kiwi Expats and those living in Canada. During last year’s Canadian Shield Tournament, which was an invitational international men’s soccer tournament, Burford sent a cold email reaching out to the CEO of the New Zealand national team. He pitched the idea of hosting an event prior to their match. They agreed, and it led to him helping orchestrate “a welcome Haka” ceremonial performance for the New Zealand national team that was memorable.

Once word got out that New Zealand would be playing two games on the west coast in Vancouver, Burford knew he wanted to do something similar. He's currently collaborating with the national team on hosting some pre-match events ahead of their games in Canada, with thousands of fans expected to travel from around the world.

“People see this as a once-in-a-lifetime sort of a trip,” said Burford.

The Kiwis are the lowest ranked team in the World Cup that qualified for the expanded 48-team tournament. Burford argues that doesn't define them since they're in the Oceania Football Confederation and don't always have the opportunity to match up against the best of the best.

“We’ve never won a World Cup game, so if we can go there and win a game, for us, it's like winning the World Cup,” said Burford. 

Back in 2019, Burford moved to Canada on a two-year working visa, settling in the city. He was eager to see what a North American sporting environment was like, and arrived during the Toronto Raptors championship run in 2019. 

“That was very eye-opening, seeing how passionate… especially the Toronto sports fans are,” said Burford. “… As someone from New Zealand, we just don't get to experience that (too) much.”

Seven years later, he’s a permanent resident with plans to get citizenship soon. What's surprised him was the special Kiwi community he's found in the city.

How to cheer: Hemingway’s has been the home away from home for New Zealand folks for 42 years. Whatever sporting match New Zealand is competing in, it’s almost guaranteed that it will be played at the Yorkville location.

Burford usually has a mince or cheese pie, which is a quintessential Kiwi staple. Fish and chips are also big, as Burford will be at the restaurant for the group stage match against Iran before travelling to watch his country play in person against Egypt and Belgium.

“We’ll get as many Kiwis as possible (in) there. I think we'll be packed,” said Burford. “Going off like other World Cup's … it'll be hard to get a seat. I think it'll be buzzing and there'll be a good atmosphere.”