The fan: President of the Norwegian Club of Toronto Thomas Jansen, 37. 

The country: Norway will return to the World Cup for the first time since 1998, led by captain Martin Odegaard and superstar striker Erling Haaland. The country has never made it past the round of 16, but Norway did win the FIFA Women’s World Cup in 1995. Approximately 5.7 million people live in Norway, with roughly 50,000 Norwegian nationals in Canada and 8,670 people claim Norwegian heritage in Toronto.

Why he cheers: Jansen moved to Canada in 2021 and brought his love of soccer with him to Toronto. He only just got his citizenship this past April, a change he’s excited for as he sees Norway and Canada share the same “high standards of living.”

Before suffering an injury, he played in the Extreme Toronto Sports Club soccer league in the city with his friends once a week. But that hasn’t deterred the lifelong soccer fan. 

Growing into adulthood, he was always watching and playing soccer — until last year, when he tore his Achilles tendon. While he doesn’t follow a particular club team, he’s always leaned toward cheering for Manchester United in the Premier League.

“We have a young and exciting team right now,” Jansen said of Norway, nodding toward his favourite player, Odegaard. “He makes it happen.”

How to cheer: For Norwegian fans, it’s best to keep an eye on the Norwegian Club of Toronto social media pages for watch parties. 

Planning the meetups are still on the club’s to-do list, Jansen said, but he is expecting dozens of people to show up. It’ll likely be a familiar bar or pub to the club’s members and likely be inside downtown Toronto.

The club was started roughly five decades ago to connect Norwegian nationals to their community, traditions and culture. Many of its founding members are still involved and are thrilled to see Norway back on the world soccer stage this year.

“People have been waiting for this for a long time," Jansen said.

He believes Norway has a good chance of becoming the “underdog story” in this year’s tournament. Most club members believe that Norway earned its spot in the tournament because of its expansion from 32 to 48 teams this year.

“I’m just excited that we finally get to watch our own team during the World Cup.”