The fan: Airline employee Christopher Daraiche.

The country: Panama, a country that will make its second World Cup appearance, and will play two games in Toronto. There’s an estimated 2,800 Panamanians people living in Canada, with 925 Panamanian immigrants in the city of Toronto.

Why he cheers: The first (and only) time Panama played in a World Cup in 2018, Toronto native Daraiche was shocked his country was tied with Belgium at halftime, with neither team conceding a goal.

His excitement quickly evaporated as Belgium came out of the break strong and Panama lost 3-0. Daraiche had been waiting for this moment for years. He can recall when he was a kid and Panama was just inches away from soccer glory in the 2005 CONCACAF Gold Cup. The team surprised many by making it to the final, before losing to the United States in a shootout.

“That one would be our first major trophy, but unfortunately they didn't make it,” said Daraiche.

Eight years after the team's first World Cup appearance in Russia, the 32-year-old will get the chance to watch Panama try and make history, but this time he’ll get to do it in person after securing tickets to Panama’s game at Toronto Stadium against Ghana.

“This World Cup, I feel they can advance for real,” said Daraiche. “Now that World Cup is here in America, it's another type of vibe … I've been waiting for this since I was a kid.”

Daraiche grew up in Montreal, but has moved back and forth to Panama over the years, first living in his mother’s homeland when he was seven. That’s when he saw the obsession around the national team. Despite the team not having much success, it rubbed off on him.

He goes back often to visit. Daraiche is excited to be among passionate Panama fans. For most of them, just being in the World Cup is a celebration in its own right.

He remembers 2018, when Panama scored its first ever goal in the tournament against England. The team was losing 6-0 and had no chance of mounting a comeback, but a goal in the 78th minute by Felipe Abdiel Baloy Ramirez etched his name in history.

“All the fans that were there at the stadium, they were celebrating that goal like if they were winning the game,” said Daraiche, who expects a similar atmosphere with Panama playing two games in Toronto.

Panama's chances of advancing in the tournament are seen as low, with the country sharing a group with Ghana, Croatia and England. Even so, Daraiche is excited to see how they will perform against those top teams. He and his close friends in Panama will be active in their group chat during matches.

“It’s like one per cent of probability and 99 per cent of faith,” said Daraiche. “On the pitch, it's 11 versus 11. There's always a chance. In football you never know what's going to happen.”

Daraiche points to Greece's victory at Euro 2004 — widely considered one of the biggest shocks in international football history — as a reason for hope. He believes the first game will be crucial in determining if they will advance.

“I feel like people are thinking that the national team is going there for vacation,” said Daraiche. “If they (get) a good result on the first one, their chances to advance to the next round will be really impressive.”

How to cheer: As many Panama fans will be watching the first two games in the stadium, others plan to gather at Nathan Phillips Square from June 17 to 20 for an international drumming and unity festival.

Daraiche says most Panamanians will have chicken wings and a six-pack of beer while watching a game. After the match — for those that have been drinking — they’ll have sancocho, a chicken stew that is one of the country’s national dishes. 

On the way to games, he expects to hear the unofficial national anthem of Panama, “Patria” by Ruben Blades, to kick of the excitement of the country being back on the world stage.