The fan: Daycare co-ordinator Kelly Neto, 32

The country: Portugal makes its ninth appearance in the World Cup with hopes of capturing its first trophy. The southwestern European nation has a large contingent in Canada with approximately 128,795 people; 85,165 people of Portuguese origin live in Toronto.

Why she cheers: Neto has vivid memories of her Portugal-themed birthday party that celebrated the national team making it all the way to the UEFA Euro 2004 final against Greece.

Despite being the host nation, Portugal lost 1-0. “It wasn't a super happy time,” recalled Neto. “But going all the way to the finals, it was so emotional, seeing everyone so excited and so joined together for one nation.”

Since then, the 32-year-old — whose parents are both Portuguese — has been emotionally invested in the team and is hopeful this will be Portugal’s year as they gear up for the seventh straight World Cup appearance.

Portugal is in a group with DR Congo, Uzbekistan and Colombia and they’re considered the favourites.

During Portugal matches, it’ll be hard for Neto to stay still. She played soccer competitively for 12 years, all the way into university, and often uses her playing experience to read and predict plays.

The first jersey she received was of that of Cristiano Ronaldo, which she still has despite it being too small for her now. She has a drawer with a section dedicated to Portugal jerseys, a collection of about 15 in red, white and black.

“People who just know me also gift me them, because they know I'm such a huge soccer fan,” said Neto.

With Ronaldo approaching the last leg of his career, Neto says the only major achievement he doesn’t have is a World Cup title. Considered one of the greatest to play the game, Ronaldo is set to play in his sixth World Cup, and many like Neto believe it would be great for him to close his career by winning it all.

Neto works at the First Portuguese Canadian Cultural Center of Toronto. It’s a non-profit organization that serves the community and provides Portuguese and ESL classes, as well as a mini daycare program, which Neto helps run. A love of her culture and of teaching got her invested in working with kids.

“I love being Portuguese,” she said. “I feel like it really does connect me to the rest of the world. Learning Portuguese and speaking the language really does help open so many doors, and just representing it and 

How to cheer: During matches, traditional Portuguese snacks include Lupini beans, known as tremocos in Portugal. They’re often paired with beer or wine. Portuguese smoked sausage is a classic appetizer as well.

Little Portugal comes alive every World Cup and this year should be no exception. For instance, fans can gather inside Bairrada Churrasqueira in Little Portugal to watch games, as the restaurant plans to host a few hundred fans during the World Cup.