The fan: Communication consultant Marwan Abu Ghanem, 60.

Cheering for: Saudi Arabia, which has qualified for eight World Cups and will host in 2034. Located on the Arabian Peninsula, Saudi Arabia has a population of 35.3 million people; approximately 3,500 people of Saudi Arabian ethnic origin live in the GTA.

Why he's cheering: Marwan Abu Ghanem knew he would follow Saudi Arabia when they made it to the World Cup for the first time. 

Originally from Lebanon, he’d been a football fan since childhood, using whatever money he got from his parents to buy newspapers to keep up with the scores.

He moved to the United Arab Emirates in 1989, travelling to neighbouring Saudi Arabia every now and then. He watched the team debut at the World Cup debut in 1994, and that hooked him. “I was watching it while in Dubai on TV and it was amazing,” said Abu Ghanem.

In 2022, he got to watch the team play a friendly against Iceland in the U.A.E. capital of Abu Dhabi, cheering them on from the stands. His passion for the sport led him to write “Kullul Arqaam,” an Arabic history book about the World Cup from 1930 to 2014. 

“I wrote it all by myself. It was really something I was proud of,” said Abu Ghanem.

A volunteer at Mississauga's Arabic Cultural Club of Ontario over the past four years, he came to Canada in 2006, and is ready to catch the World Cup in Toronto. “Being a Canadian as well, I am also a fan of Canada,” he said.

For Abu Ghanem, the best part of this year's World Cup is that, while he won’t get to watch his team play live, he’ll get to see a game in Toronto on July 2, a knockout-stage match with teams that remain to be determined 

“I couldn't believe it when my niece managed to get a ticket for me,” said Abu Ghanem. “Potentially England or Portugal. Or Colombia or Croatia. It's gonna be a very strong team.”

How to cheer: Saudi Arabia games will on screens around town, from The Porch on Adelaide Street West when they take on Uruguay on June 15, to Dublin Calling's Adelaide and Danforth locations when they take on Cape Verde on June 26, to the FIFA Fan Festival when they confront powerhouse Spain on June 21.