The fan: Marketing director Steven Allison, 36

Cheering for: Scotland, part of the United Kingdom with a population of over 5 million people, is back in the World Cup for the first time in 28 years. There are about 211,175 Scottish people living in Toronto.

Why they're cheering: The night Scotland qualified for the 2026 World Cup in November, Steven Allison and a group of about 30 people were on top of tables, going absolutely bonkers, screaming and celebrating as they watched at the local pub, Scotland Yard.

Allison couldn’t remember what the feeling was like. The last time he saw Scotland in the World Cup, he was a kid in school, watching their opening match in 1998 against Brazil.

Despite Scotland's 28-year absence from the World Cup, soccer is the most important sport in the country. Two of the country's most successful clubs, Celtic F.C. and Rangers F.C., despise each other. It’s a rivalry rooted in deep religious, social and political divisions.

Allison’s dad has been a season-ticket holder for the Rangers for over 50 years, passing it on to him. Allison still holds onto it, despite now living in Toronto.

The only thing that can calm the fanbases and bring them together in one room is cheering on Scotland’s national team.

Supporters of Scotland — known as the Tartan Army — often travel far and wide, filling up global arenas. They can be spotted wearing traditional Scottish clothing, including a knee-length kilt made of tartan wool. Some also can be seen carrying bagpipes, preparing to sing their classic anthem “We'll Be Coming Down the Road” before matches.

“We like to drink and we like to have a good time and we like to sing,” said Allison.

Allison estimates he’s attended about 50 Scotland matches in his lifetime, travelling across Europe in Greece, Spain, Italy, Germany, Slovakia and Georgia to cheer on his country. He’ll be in Boston, Mass., for 12 days as he’s secured tickets for Scotland’s first World Cup match against Haiti. He’ll then fly to Miami to watch them conclude their group stage against Brazil.

This past Halloween, Allison dressed as William Wallace from the 1995 film “Braveheart.”

“I was going to Scotland games before I can actually really remember the games and who we were playing, but my dad took me,” said Allison. “We’ve been following my whole life. I'm 36 now, so you're talking 33 years of it.”

When Allison moved to Toronto in 2024 for a marketing job, he felt homesick. The only way he felt closer to home as visiting Scotland Yard and watching all of Scotland’s qualifying games, which allowed him to make new friends and connect with Scottish folks in the city. Hours before a match, drinking isn’t optional; it’s a requirement for Scotland fans.

How to cheer: A classic drink for match day is a pint of Tennent's Lager, made in Glasgow. In North America, Buckfast tonic wine has become popular. At halftime, it’s also routine for supporters to have a traditional scotch pie.

“We actually have a phrase back in Scotland where it's 'eating is cheating,' meaning if you're drinking, you shouldn't be having any food because it sobers you up,” laughs Allison. “You fill your stomach with beer basically.”

Expectations for the World Cup aren’t grand for fans like Allison. He celebrated qualifying for the World Cup like Scotland won the whole thing. There are only two things Allison wants to see in this tournament. One is for his country to win a match in the group stage, which hasn’t happened since 1990. The other thing? Seeing England lose.

“(Our) second team is whoever England are playing against. England won the World Cup in 1966, and they still talk about it,” said Allison.