The fan: Investment specialist El-Ousmane Sakho, 52.

The country: Senegal has made three straight World Cup appearances and hopes to become the first African nation to hoist the international trophy. It’s a country of more than 19 million in West Africa, along the Atlantic Ocean coast; there are 300 people in Toronto with Senegalese origin.

Why he cheers: A year prior to the 1998 World Cup in France, Sakho would wake up at 6:30 a.m. every Sunday, take a train and travel for training as a volunteer steward at the tournament inside the Stade de France.

“I still have my medal and they give me a certificate,” said Sakho, who cherishes the memory to this day. “It’s here with me. I still have it. Since 1998, I have it with me."

Sakho moved from Senegal to France to study finance at university before coming to Canada in 2002. The first World Cup the 52-year-old watched was in 1986, but Senegal hadn’t yet made an appearance in the tournament, which led him to cheer for France, a country that colonized Senegal and featured several Senegalese players.

It wasn’t until Sakho’s first year living in downtown Toronto that Senegal made its first World Cup appearance. It was an overwhelming feeling — Senegal’s first-ever match was against France as they shocked the world by defeating the reigning champions 1-0 to open the tournament.

“It was very, very emotional,” said Sakho, who remembers the game like it was yesterday. “I remember back home, nobody slept that night. It was crazy. I was thinking we would go all the way.”

Senegal became the second African team to reach the quarterfinals in tournament history, but lost to Turkey. They’ve now made three straight World Cup appearances, becoming a tournament staple. Sakho cheered on the team in the 1980s, following legendary Senegalese defender Roger Mendy. He became a key figure for the national team and played for AS Monaco in the French league — a team Sakho supports to this day because of Mendy.

Sakho doesn’t think it’s impossible that Senegal could be the first African national to hoist the World Cup trophy, with several players competing on top teams across the world. It wouldn’t be a celebration just for his country, Sakho says, but it would likely be a holiday for all of Africa.

Last June, they beat England 3-1 in a friendly and have lost only two of their previous 30 matches, excluding penalty shootouts. Earlier this year, they went on a streak of 17 wins in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON).

The country has extra motivation after the controversial AFCON final in January, where Senegal initially won 1-0, but forfeited after protesting a late penalty by walking off the field for more than 15 minutes. The Confederation of African Football has since stripped Senegal of the title and instead declared Morocco winners. It led to the Senegalese Football Federation appealing the decision to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.

“This thing is completely a joke,” said Sakho. “I’m 1,000 per cent certain that the tribunal will cancel the decision. Even if they don’t cancel it, we are still champions because we (won) it in the field.”

Senegal is set to open the World Cup against France and then plays Norway and Iraq. They are considered likely to come out of their group. Sakho is already looking at the possibility that Senegal runs into Morocco this World Cup.

“They have a good team. They can go far," said Sakho. “We never know, (maybe) we can meet them further down the road, if we go far as well … my dream is to meet Morocco in the World Cup.”

How to cheer: Sakho rarely ever goes out in public these days to watch games. It’s too much to handle for him, because he needs to concentrate while watching Senegal compete. Fans of Senegal are expected to gather at PendAfrica, a restaurant in North York.

During games, fans will eat Thieboudienne, the country’s national dish of fish and rice, along with jollof rice, which also originates from Senegal. Yassa (marinated chicken with onions and lemon) is also a popular dish.

Sakho will have the Senegalese flag out for the country’s first game and also has plans to go to their third game in Toronto against Iraq.

“I have jerseys. My kids have jerseys. I'm waiting for the new one,” said Sakho. “I am waiting for a new jersey with the two stars."