The fan: Technical sales manager Robert Larkan, 44.

The country: South Africa returns to the World Cup for the first time since it last hosted the tournament in 2010. The nation on the southernmost tip of the African continent has about 51,590 living in Canada and 21,540 in the province of Ontario.

Why he cheers: Larkan has a bit of déjà vu ahead of this year’s World Cup. Sixteen years ago was the last time he watched his home country, South Africa — the host nation — play in the tournament, kicking things off with a match against Mexico.

Fast forward exactly 16 years, and Larkan will witness a rematch against the same team on the same date.

Larkan was fully immersed in the global tournament, cheering on the South African national team, known as the Bafana Bafana which translates to "the boys, the boys." Large parks held watch parties and private schools opened their facilities to show matches during the festivities.

“There were a lot of people turning up to work late during that month,” joked Larkan. “…Everything was just World Cup, World Cup, World Cup. I mean, it was awesome.”

He got to watch matches that included powerhouse nations like Spain, the Netherlands, Brazil, Germany and Portugal. He got tickets through FIFA as a local. If he wasn’t watching a game in the stadium, he was at a fan park with other fans. As a Liverpool soccer fan, he got to witness some of his favourite players competing in person for Spain, who went on to win that World Cup.

Larkan, who is based near Niagara-on-the-Lake, moved to Canada in 2022 with his family. Before that, he grew up and lived in South Africa and saw how Nelson Mandela used the 1995 Rugby World Cup to unify and bring his country together during the apartheid. Mandela spent 27 years in prison for his opposition to the apartheid regime, refusing to give up on trying to achieve equality for everyone, later becoming the country’s first Black president.

“It was something that we saw bring the country together and open up people's eyes to what has been, (and) expose ourselves to the world that we're here, we want to grow, we want to build ourselves together,” said Larkan.

He believes the country’s return to the World Cup can ignite the country, similar to the rugby event in 1995 and similar to hosting in 2010. Larkan’s son already has his own South African kit for the World Cup, with his name on the back. Just recently, the seven-year-old played in his first competitive soccer game.

“Maybe one day, three more World Cup times, he'll be running on the field. You never know,” said Larkan. “He’s got the football bug.”

Viewed as underdogs in a group with Mexico, South Korea and the Czech Republic, Larkan just wants to see South Africa make history and get out of the group stage for the first time.

How to cheer: Larkan plans to host a barbecue, which in South Africa is called either a Shisanyama or a braai, and is a significant gathering for people. It comes from the Zulu phrase and means “burn meat,” and refers to communal barbecue. 

Food staples include South African sausages known as boerewors, which are on the menu. Boerewors means “farmer’s sausage” in Afrikaans and is normally on a bun with spicy tomatoes and onion-based relish, also called Chakalaka. Another common food is Biltong, which is an air-dried, cured meat. Different from beef jerky but awfully familiar to outsiders.

South African fans are expected to watch games at TK.