The fan: Financial analyst Jake Kim, 37.

Cheering for: South Korea has made 11 World Cup appearances, included a fourth-place finish in 2002. The country has a population of 51.75 million people and is in East Asia, located in the southern half of the Korean Peninsula. There are 74,200 people of Korean descent living in Toronto.

Why he's cheering: Jake Kim remembers the time his home country hosted the World Cup.

Born and raised in South Korea, Kim spent his youth falling in love with the game. He grew up playing soccer but knew he would be a fan for life when South Korea hosted the 2002 World Cup.

“I truly became a fan watching all those matches happening in my homeland,” said Kim. “That's what I fell in love with.”

That love of the sport carried on even when Kim left South Korea. When he moved to Toronto, he joined the Korean Canadian Soccer Association and played in an amateur soccer league at Esther Shiner Civic Stadium in North York.

That's where his favourite part about soccer changed from watching the game to taking to the field.

“I think the game that I typically play myself has much of a bigger impact,” said Kim. “Whether you win or lose it's bound that you can have a good time and that's where I really got pulled into playing soccer.”

Kim played on that field for 10 years, where he won tournaments and made lifelong friends. The league allows people of different skills and ages to play together, which made helped build a strong Korean soccer community locally.

Now, with the World Cup arriving at his new home, Kim is ready to soak it all in and enjoy getting together with his league as they cheer on South Korea.

"Hosting the World Cup, it only comes once in a lifetime," said Kim. "I'm just excited to really see that happening.”

How to cheer: Sinjeon Topokki & Pocha on Bloor, in the heart of Koreatown, is hosting World Cup matches every day from June 11 to July 19, including South Korea as they take on Czechia on June 11, Mexico on June 18, and South Africa on June 24. Comma Toronto on Queen Street West will also show Canada and South Korea matches live on their TVs. As for Kim's plans? “It's just a bunch of our soccer buddies that we are expected to gather at the pub to watch the game together.”