The fan: Retired broadcaster Paul Hendrick, 69.

Cheering for: Spain, winners of the World Cup in 2010, will make its 17th World Cup appearance. They are ranked second in the world by FIFA heading into the tournament. The Western European nation has a population of just under 50 million; 44,625 people in Toronto claim Spanish ethnic or cultural origins.

Why he's cheering: Hendrick, best known for bringing his passion for the Maple Leafs to television through his 41-year broadcast career, had another sporting love all along: soccer. His specific interest lies in Real Madrid, and of course all things Spanish soccer.

Hendrick fell in love with the beautiful game around the same time he fell in love with his future wife, Alicia, who is from Spain, and whose brothers made sure “Hennie” never missed a Spanish result.

“I went there 39 years ago on my honeymoon, and I wanted to choose a team, so I chose Real Madrid,” said Hendrick. “You can compare their history to that of the Toronto Maple Leafs. I appreciated their history. I could never cheer for Barcelona. That would be like cheering for the Montreal Canadiens.

“I’ve been with them through ups and downs. When they’ve won Euros (European championships) my heart has burst. And when Spain won their World Cup in 2010, without a word of exaggeration, I had tears coming down the side of my face, because finally, as a country, they were able to put it together and accomplish an incredible feat.”

Spain has been one of international soccer’s most consistent teams. They reached the semifinals twice and the quarterfinals six times, but have not reached the last eight since winning it all in 2010.

“They’ve only won one World Cup,” says Hendrick. “They should have won many more. But they’re a country of many regions and couldn’t win until they learned to play as a team. Not to say they’re going to do it now, but they’ve got a really good shot at it come July.”

No players from Real Madrid were named to the Spanish squad, but Hendrick is looking forward to seeing 18-year-old Barcelona phenom Lamine Yamal make his World Cup debut.

“This kid is one of the top three players on the planet, but he has a hamstring injury,” he said.

Hendrick, a native of Noranda, Que., will of course be rooting for Canada as well. So what if Canada plays Spain down the line?

“It ain’t going to happen,” he said.

How to cheer: Hendrick will watch the Spanish team from home with his in-laws. “They’re fervent Spanish soccer fans,” he said.

For Spanish supporters, there are plenty of public places to gather. The Firkin on Bay St. (1075 Bay St.) is the Toronto home for Real Madrid fans while The Pint Public House (277 Front St. W.) typically hosts the official Penya Blaugrana de Toronto (the FC Barcelona supporters club).