The fan: Real estate agent Chedli Ben Bouzid.

The country: Tunisia, a country making its third straight World Cup appearance, is looking to make it out of the group stage for the first time in the tournament. They made history back in 1978 as the first African nation to win a World Cup match.

Why he cheers: The first World Cup Bouzid watched Tunisia compete in was in 2006. He was 10 years old, alongside his dad, as they erupted in cheers when Tunisia opened the scoring against Spain, one of the tournament favourites, to hold a 1-0 lead at halftime during their group stage match.

Nobody expected that, and for a brief moment, a lot of fans thought they were about to pull off the unthinkable.

“That was crazy. You feel like you're gonna win the World Cup,” said Bouzid. “Everything is possible.”

Spain ended up winning 3-1, but that game meant everything to Bouzid, who started following the national team closely. He’s attended more than 25 Tunisian games in person over the years.

That’s why it was a no-brainer for the 29-year-old to trek to downtown Toronto to watch Tunisia play in two friendly matches ahead of the World Cup against Haiti and Canada in March. He wasn’t alone as many Tunisians packed BMO Field, in red and white, with flags and face paint.

“Even for a friendly, people are crazy about soccer,” said Bouzid. “Other countries wouldn't give it that importance, you know, like ’It's just a friendly, I'm going to bed.’ We don't mess around with that.”

Bouzid is from Tunisia but moved to Canada five years ago, relocating to Montreal before settling in Toronto a year ago. Ever since he was a kid, his father and uncles have all followed the Tunisian national team.

Soccer is the No. 1 sport back home in Tunisia. No matter the opponent and time, Tunisians pack inside local coffee shops to support the country. When he watched Tunisia in March, for Bouzid, it felt like he wasn’t in Canada for a second, but back in his homeland surrounded by locals watching their favourite sport.

“I say it jokingly every time (that) we're gonna win the World Cup. There's nothing stopping you from dreaming, right?” said Bouzid.

How to cheer: The culture for most Tunisian soccer fans is to find a cafe to watch the game and have a cup of strong coffee by their side while they’re watching the national team. Bouzid’s dad used to own a cafe where hundreds of Tunisians would come by and stand outside on the street to get a glimpse of the TV inside.

Eating food during matches isn’t common, says Bouzid, with most resorting to coffee, tea and some hookah or cigarettes to calm the nerves.

“It’s that combination of caffeine, nicotine and a soccer game on the screen, and you know, the adrenaline being at its height — that's most Tunisians,” said Bouzid.

Tunisian fans are known for “being spicy,” says Bouzid, always protective of the national team and the country. It’s quite fitting as the country is known to have the hottest cuisine in North Africa.

“We always want to make sure we're given a good image of the country for people that don't necessarily know where we come from, don't know the country,” said Bouzid. “We want to make sure when they see us, they’re like, okay, ‘These are Tunisians. They're fun. They're spicy. They are all about good vibes.’ ”

Tunisian fans in Toronto are expected to gather at TK. The team heads into this World Cup with a younger team, a new head coach with many players from their last World Cup appearance in 2022, not with the team. They’re in a group with Sweden, the Netherlands and Japan.

Bouzid is confident heading into the tournament, believing that his country will get out of the group stage for the first time ever. But he hasn’t imagined what it would what would happen if Tunisia shocked the world and won the World Cup.

He thinks the country might celebrate for the rest of the year; he might even consider wearing his Tunisian jersey to work every single day until people got fed up.

“It would be like reminding people constantly we won the World Cup,” said Bouzid.