The fan: President of the Turkish Society of Canada, Murat Kinat Tibet, 59.

The country: Turkey has made only four appearances at the World Cup and the 2026 edition will be their first appearance in the tournament since 2002, where they had their best result with a third-place finish. Approximately 87.9 million people live in Turkey, with roughly 77,000 Turkish nationals in Canada and the majority of them are concentrated across the GTA.

Why he cheers: Some of Tibet’s earliest memories from growing up in Istanbul was kicking the soccer ball — a sport they refer to as “football” in Europe and the Middle East — near a shipyard. As a child, he was always tasked with being the goalkeeper and his “net” was a large steel door with gold features surrounding it.

He remembers the loud bang of the soccer ball against the doors when his competitors kicked it above. “We were really tiny guys playing around there,” Tibet said, adding that they weren’t very good at the sport.

While there was initial disappointment that Turkey’s games would not be coming to Toronto (their first match is against Australia in Vancouver before heading to the U.S.), the excitement has built up nonetheless amongst the community, said Tibet. Many are also excited to cheer on Canada during the tournament.

“As Turkey’s team couldn’t play in Toronto, I will have more fun with the Canada team since they’re here.”

How to cheer: Most matches in Toronto will be organized by local communities and soccer groups, which are split into four branches to symbolize Turkey’s four major “football clubs” competing in the country’s top league, the Turkish Süper Lig.

Since downtown Toronto will likely be jam-packed during the games (and Tibet specifically points out the city’s FIFA Fan Festival), Tibet will be avoiding those zones during match days.

While watch parties haven’t been organized yet, he envisions a group of enthused Turkish soccer fans crowded into a restaurant or bar, rejoicing over the country’s return to the games after a 24-year hiatus. 

But through the chaos and blur of the games, he’s most looking forward to sharing the experience with his son, a recent graduate from the University of Toronto. 

“We are always watching the (soccer) games together,” he said. “There’s also the possibility that we can watch the final games here in Canada as well.”