The fan: Sales executive Anthony Antonelli, 56.

The country: The United States makes its 12th World Cup appearance and is one of the three host nations. Our neighbour has a population of about 342 million; approximately 256,090 Americans live in Canada, with 48,265 calling Toronto home.

Why he cheers: Gearing up to watch his national team, Antonelli gets chills thinking about the possibility of them accomplishing the unbelievable and winning a World Cup on home soil.

“Nothing's gonna change the political climate in these times, but I think it would definitely help unite Americans a bit more, kind of like the hockey and the Olympics did,” said Antonelli. “But for me personally, I just think I have so much pride. I'm such a big fan of the sport in general and seeing it grow within the United States that I think that the long-term implications of them winning or even getting to the final will, I think, shine a light on the sport.”

Antonelli grew up in New Jersey, just across the bridge from Philadelphia, moving to Canada for work in 2004. He has called our country home ever since, with three Canadian-American kids living in the city. But he considers himself a defender of American soccer, and his household often splits on which nation they support.

He and his 12-year-old son Luke will head to Seattle to watch the United States play Australia this month, before he spends time in British Columbia up in the nosebleeds to watch Canada play Qatar on June 18.

“I think he's super excited,” said Antonelli of his son. “He’s like telling all his friends … he was like beaming that he gets to go, but I actually don't think he really understands how many people worldwide, and obviously in Canada and the U.S., are going to be watching and participating in all the fan events. I don't think he quite understands what's about to hit all of us in a good way.”

The 56 year old travelled to Brazil to watch the 2014 World Cup. Lionel Messi scored in the game he attended, but the coolest part for him was seeing how people from different countries hung out together and appreciated each other’s company.

“Everyone's talking to each other, (asking), ‘Where are you from? Why are you here?’ and it just really, it sounds cheesy, but it really did feel like this global get-together,” said Antonelli.

How to cheer: When he’s not watching the World Cup in-person, Antonelli will try and feel closer to home by keeping similar traditions that he does for the Super Bowl, having friends over and making hoagies and cheesesteaks, which are Philadelphia staples.