The fan: Air Canada worker Carlos Zeballos, 54

Cheering for: Uruguay, a country who won in 1930 and 1950 in their 15 World Cup appearances. Uruguay has a population of 3.5 million people and is located in South America on the South Atlantic coast; 1,115 people of Uruguay origin live in Toronto.

Why he's cheering: Carlos Zeballos had a long soccer career in Canada.

The former player in the Canadian National Soccer League began in 1993 with the Scarborough Astros. He signed with Toronto Supra in 1997 and helped the club secure a spot in the post-season. He recalls playing in his youth in Uruguay, visiting his roots while being born in Canada.

“I played my whole life. I played here competitively, I played in Uruguay competitively,” said Zeballos. “I can't see myself not being around soccer.”

Growing up in Canada Zeballos became involved in Club Uruguay Toronto, a community organization that would host games and watch soccer together every weekend in Downsview. These moments connecting with his community were important to him, and now he will cheer on Uruguay as the World Cup comes to town.

“It's so gratifying that we have a World Cup here,” said Zeballos. “Many cities will go on forever with never having a World Cup venue and it's the best sport in the world for me.”

One of his fondest soccer memories (without taking to the pitch) was the historic 3-3 draw match between Uruguay and Senegal during the 2002 FIFA World Cup. Zeballos was in the stands right behind the net and watched his country come back from 3-0 in the second half.

“Was one of those games of a lifetime,” said Zeballos, commemorating the game with a signed soccer ball from the 2002 Uruguay national team. “A memento from that time that I'm happy that I've kept it all these years.”

Now he’s ready to make new memories in Toronto and is “very proud” of Uruguay.

“Uruguayans are very proud people. We're a country of only three million people but have accomplished so much in soccer over time,” said Zeballos.

How to cheer: Uruguayans in Toronto are hosting a watch party event at Ciociaro Social Club in Woodbridge. Tickets are $10 and the event is on June 26 when Uruguay plays Spain.