 

The fan: Gulruh Egamoba, an admin at a non-profit, 41.

Cheering for: Uzbekistan, located in Central Asia, was long part of the U.S.S.R. The country didn’t have its own national team until 1992, joining FIFA in 1994. The team, known as the White Wolves, are rated 50th in the world by FIFA and has qualified for the World Cup for the first time. They are the first Central Asian nation and third former Soviet republic to do so. More than 38 million people live is Uzbekistan, where soccer is said to be the most popular sport. About 10,000 Uzbeks live in Canada, about half settling in Toronto.

Why she's cheering: Egamoba, a mother of two from North York, came to Canada 20 years ago. She says the sport has grown on her.

“Lately I’m getting more interested,” said Egamoba. “I don’t know why. Maybe it’s my environment. There are a lot of soccer fans in my workplace.”

Part of it is just the fun of it all. Community fun. She remembers taking to the streets and partying during Russia’s run to the World Cup quarterfinals in 2018.

“We just joined all the fans,” she said. “We came together on the street in a Russian neighbourhood. All the fans celebrated. It was very interesting. Different. The entire street was filled with soccer fans.”

She has plans to see Uzbekistan play Portugal in Houston on June 23 where, as a big fan of Cristiano Ronaldo, her loyalties might just be divided a little.

“But I also like how our new Uzbek player is doing. He’s very talented.”

That would be Abdukodir Khusanov, a defender at Manchester City and the first Uzbek to sign with an English Premier League team. He’s represented the country from the under-17 age group onward and earned his first senior call-up for the 2023 AFC Asian Cup.

How to cheer: It appears many Uzbeks are going to leave Toronto and go to the games in Houston, Mexico City and Atlanta to support their team.

For those left behind, no hard plans have been made.

“I’m really encouraging all my friends to gather together, and make plans where we can watch together,” said Egamoba. “We’ll try to make it supper, but it’s not in place yet.”

They — or others who want a feel of Uzbekistan — may end up at AsiaMix, located at 180 Steeles Ave. W., west of Yonge St., near Little Russia.

“Basically there’s only one Uzbek restaurant in Toronto,” said Egamoba. “They have a TV.”

It’s an Asian fusion restaurant that features Uzbek cuisine including slow-cooked lamb, mutton, beef and rice.